A JOURNEY TO THE WEST I

Preface
This book, A Journey to the West, mainly focuses on the precious teachings of
H.H. Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche during his travels to Europe and North America
to spread the dharma in 1993. From the Land of Tibet, which was starved of
information, to the technologically advanced United States, Canada, and France,
the audiences’ dispositions and preferences were completely different, and as a
result there was a huge variance in the way Chojé, Lord of Dharma, delivered
the dharma teachings. If he were an ordinary person, Chojé would have felt
very uncomfortable with the unfamiliar culture and environment. But he was
quite at ease, and with his exceptional wisdom and preeminent realization, he
deeply impressed and influenced a large group of Europeans and Americans.

Looking back on Yidzhin Norbu’s entire life of seventy-one years, the details
of this journey to the West remain unknown to most people. I had the privilege
of accompanying him on this trip, and as a witness, I feel it is necessary to reveal
his elegant demeanor to everyone. For a long time, I wanted to collate my notes
that were recorded back then and the material I brought back from the trip
and compile them into a book. Later, I was able to collect even more material
through various channels, but I have been putting it off until now because I was
busy with dharma teachings and other matters.
This year coincides with the 30th anniversary of Chojé’s visit to Europe
and North America, and the 20th anniversary of his parinirvana. Given such
a special occasion, I put everything else aside and primarily focused on this
book. Starting in December 2022, I began to write this book in both Tibetan
and Chinese simultaneously, and also had the International Translation Team1
translate it into English, Japanese, and so forth.

 Most of the time, I worked more
than ten hours every day, during which I encountered some health issues and
had to undergo an operation. Just after I was discharged from the hospital,
driven by a strong feeling of impermanence, I continued working on the book.
Then, by the end of April 2023, I completed my draft.
In June, when I invited Khenpo Tsultrim Lodro Rinpoche to help me preview
this book, at that time he said, “This year is the 20th anniversary of Lama
Yidzhin Norbu’s parinirvana. It is best that we can distribute this book to the
sangha as a gift during the Parinirvana Dharma Assembly.” 

All the khenpos in
charge of Larung Gar this year, including Khenpo Tsondru Tarchin and Khenpo
Wangchuk Tsegyal, attach great importance to this book and suggested that
this book be offered to all lineage disciples of Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok at the
dharma assembly as a remembrance. Moreover, the primary individuals in
the preparatory team responsible for arranging this dharma assembly have
proofread this book and promised to take charge of all affairs to put it into
print. It is particularly worth mentioning that Tulku Tendzin Gyatso has not
only proofread the book in a meticulous manner, but also provided precious
advice for the improvement of some content based on his experience of writing
the extensive biography of Chojé in recent years.

In July, I gathered the suggestions and feedback from everyone, carefully
examined and revised the necessary parts, and finalized the draft in a satisfactory
way. 


In the process of writing the book, I listened to the recordings of Rinpoche’s
original teachings many times, first compiling them into the written format in
Tibetan, and then translating them into Chinese. When I encountered some
stories or certain statements mentioned in the teachings, I would look up the
related materials to make sure they were true and accurate. While laying out
the manuscript, the photos of each stop were arranged in the appropriate
places according to their times and dates. Some of these photos are screenshots
from video recordings at that time. Although not of highest quality, the photos
represent accurate, historical footage.

Previous great masters have said that it is permissible to make mistakes in
dharma teaching and debating, but composing a text must be rigorous and
free of error. However, I found that even Yidzhin Norbu’s oral teachings rarely
needed any correction or adjustment after they were written down. What he
taught was already perfect on its own. His words were eloquent, valuable, and
captivating in such a way that everyone will derive benefit.

In this book, besides Rinpoche’s original teachings, I also added some of my
recollections. Following the principle of “not boasting or exaggerating about
one’s guru with false words,” I tried to make sure all the content was accurate.
If there were some details that I could not remember clearly, I felt okay about
leaving that out. As for the empowerments that Chojé gave during the trip,
I did not include them in this book since I wish in the future to compile a
separate book as a faithful recording of the liturgies and procedures of all the
empowerments that he granted.

From the book, the reader can see that Chojé did not take a single day of rest
during the three months of this trip. He was either carrying out his enlightened
activities or was on the way to the next place of his enlightened activities. Within
the one hundred five days, he gave forty empowerments and sixty-eight talks,
and his traveling by car and airplane alone was more than two hundred hours.

Without the great compassion and altruistic aspiration to benefit sentient beings,
an ordinary person simply could not have made such a fully packed trip.
Thirty years ago, Yidzhin Norbu clearly observed the capacity and preference
of westerners, and without any reservation, he passed onto them the precious
teachings of Secret Mantra that were difficult to obtain even in the Tibetan
monastic community. Such an exception was the first and also the last time. If
anyone wants to practice any of these supreme tantric teachings in the future,
they must first seek the empowerment, transmission, and guidance manual of
the teaching from a qualified lineage master. Otherwise, it will be harmful and
unproductive.

In this day and age, most people are used to speed reading on the Internet
and are inseparable from their smart phones. They may not have the patience to
read through long articles of dharma teaching, preferring short quotations and
magical experiences to satisfy their searching minds instead. However, for a
person who truly seeks liberation, these profound teachings that arose naturally
from the ocean of Rinpoche’s wisdom are priceless beyond all else. Especially,
for those who never met him, just reading this book is equivalent to meeting
Chojé in person and listening to his teaching face to face.

This book is a true documentation of the teachings given by a great Buddhist
master in this modern age. For worldly people, it may be easier to learn more
about Buddhism from another perspective. 

For dharma practitioners, they can
find the actual pith instructions they need for their own practice right here. 

For dharma teachers and propagators, they can be inspired by these stories about
H.H. Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche. 

For lineage disciples, they will refresh their
memories of Chojé’s impressions that spread the dharma in the West, and they
can go on to be inspired by emulating his spirit of propagating the dharma for
the benefit of all beings.

I would like to thank everyone who was involved in this project called A
Journey to the West. Whether they were typing, editing, proofreading, typesetting,
printing, or provided photos, audio, and video recordings, all these elements of
participation have enriched this publication, enabling it to present this history
more vividly and memorably.

If there are any errors in the book, I sincerely repent them in the presence
of my guru and the wisdom deity. With this merit, I make the dedication to
all sentient beings throughout the universe to swiftly attain the fruition of the
ultimate guru!

Written by Sodargye in the Rainbow Light Cave,
A sacred terma place of Padmasambhava that is fully endowed with supreme blessing
The Seventeenth Day of the Fifth Month of the Water Rabbit Year
July 5th, 2023