
Itinerary
Tokyo 1 day, 1 talk
Hawaii 4 days, 4 talks, and 3 empowerments
Boulder 7 days, 5 talks
Rocky Mountains 7 days, 10 talks, and 2 empowerments
California & Oregon 16 days, 11 talks, and 9 empowerments
Washington, D.C. 9 days, 6 talks, and 2 empowerments
New York City 8 days, 6 talks, and 3 empowerments
Boston 8 days, 4 talks, and 5 empowerments
Nova Scotia 6 days, 6 talks, and 2 empowerments
Southern France 8 days, 7 talks, and 3 empowerments
Hong Kong 4 days, 1 talk, and 3 empowerments
Taiwan 7 days, 5 talks, and 5 empowerments
Chengdu 7 days, 2 talks, and 3 empowerments
105 days, on the trip 68talks
200+
hours, travel time 40empowerments
14cities
Traveling 41,680 kilometers,
equivalent to traveling around the earth once
June 12th–June 17th
Beginning
Schedule
June 12th
Departed from Larung Gar for Dartsedo
June 13th
Arrived in Chengdu
June 14th
Flew to Guangzhou
June 15th
Went through Shenzhen customs and reached Hong Kong
June 16th
Passed through Tokyo, Japan and gave teachings
June 17th
Flew to Hawaii, United States
Beginning 3
Prepared Secretly over Three Years
When Kyabjé Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche visited India in 1990, he already had
the plan to go to the West to spread the dharma. Once, His Holiness2
spoke to
me in private, “I am planning to visit the US and some other western countries
in three or four years to teach the dharma there. If you are interested and your
family would agree, I can bring you along. For the moment, do not reveal this
plan to anyone else to avoid unnecessary obstacles. Although there is nothing
mysterious about our traveling abroad, to ensure that everything goes smoothly,
the plan should be kept confidential. You have always been tight-lipped about
such matters. That is good!” Having said those words, Yidzhin Norbu continued,
“To move forward with this plan, I would like Khenpo Namdrol to be in charge
of communications with the dharma centers, and you to be responsible for
making all the preparations.”
Hearing these words, my mind was overcome with both excitement and
stress. I thought to myself, “I must make every effort to serve my guru by trying
my best to please and satisfy him, regardless of the outcome!”
After our conversation, I began secret preparations for the trip, such as
passport applications, fund raising, and gathering necessary materials, such as
a good camera and so forth. I also tried to learn about the manners and customs
of the western world to be prepared. Back then, there was no worldwide web or
social media, so I made do with the resources available at the time.
In addition, I needed to organize and prepare the dharma texts, liturgies,
and ritual implements. In particular, it was necessary to make recordings of
certain teachings and liturgies because, since 1990, Chojé’s vision was already
compromised, making it difficult for him to read the texts. Although he could
memorize the shorter texts and common liturgies for empowerment, it was still
necessary to record the longer ones so that during his teaching, he could listen
4
to a paragraph and then take a pause to explain it. Since Khenpo Chimé Rigdzin
had a very good voice and was good at reading, I asked him to help me make
the recordings of the Chetsun Nyingtig,
a The Flight of the Garuda,
b and other texts
that His Holiness would teach. Once he asked me in a whisper, “Why would
you need these recordings? Is Yidzhin Norbu planning for a long journey?”
Although awkward, I declined to reply and quickly changed the subject.
0.1: The tape recorder used by Chojé for many years
In the following three years, His Holiness received many invitations from
important Buddhist centers in the US, Canada, France, and other countries.
Back then at Larung Gar, there were very few people who even understood
English. Even if some might understand, I could not ask them for help because
I had to keep the information hidden. Nonetheless, I was able to figure out the
meaning of those invitation letters and reported the content to Rinpoche.
Generally speaking, I secretly prepared for the trip for some three years.
Before we embarked on the journey, I felt fully prepared for what was to come.
a
lce tsun snying thig.
b
lta ba’i mgur mkha’ lding gshog rlabs; Shabkar Tsokdruk Rangdrol.
Beginning 5
The First Grand Dharma Assembly of Sukhavati
In 1993, the year of the Water Bird in the Tibetan Calendar, His Holiness was
sixty years old. At the beginning of that year, he gave the teaching of Exploring
the Nature of Mind: Treatise of the Precious Vajra Garlanda at Larung Gar Five
Sciences Buddhist Academy. During that period, the construction of the first
dharma hall for the Han Buddhist sangha called “The Sutra and Mantra Dharma
Hall for Han Sangha” was completed. Rinpoche consecrated it and imparted
the Dzogchen empowerment to the Han sangha, as well as the teaching on
Longchenpa’s Natural Freedom of the Nature of Mind.
b
Afterward, Yidzhin Norbu invited Tulku Tishta and Khenpo Tepa from
Domang Monastery to come and give the empowerment and teaching of Dupa
Do¯
c
to the entire sangha at Larung Gar. During that time, His Holiness went to
Drango, Garze, Palyul, Nyarong, Dawu, and other Tibetan regions to spread
the dharma teachings. On the trip, he bestowed profound empowerments for
the fortunate ones, such as Nyingtig Yabzhi,
d Kalachakra,
e and other suitable
instructions.
At that time, I was thirty-one years old. Together with the sangha, I received
the empowerments from Tulku Tishta and the teaching on the Commentary on
Dupa Do¯
f
from Khenpo Tepa, which lasted for approximately half a month.
Meanwhile, I taught Longchenpa’s Chariot of Excellence,
g
the commentary on
a nyug sem zur chad dorjé rinchen treng wa (gnyug sems zur dpyad rdo rje rin chen phreng ba).
b
sem nyid rang drol (sems nyid rang grol); Longchen Rabjam.
c
’dus pa mdo; Sutra which Gathers All Intentions.
d
snying thig ya bzhi; Four Sections of the Heart Essence; Longchen Rabjam.
e du kyi khor lo (dus kyi ’khor lo); Wheel of Time.
f pal chi do gong pa dupa’i drel pa ¯ (dpal spyi mdo dgongs pa ’dus pa’i ’grel pa); Khenpo Nuden.
g
shingta zangpo (shing rta bzang po); Longchen Rabjam.
6
Finding Rest in Illusion,
a and Chariot of Surpassing Purity,
b
the commentary on
Finding Rest in Meditation,
c
to the Han sangha.
0.2: Chojé consecrating the Sutra and Mantra Dharma Hall for Han Sangha
a gyu ma ngal so (sgyu ma ngal gso).
b
shingta nam par dag pa (shing rta rnam par dag pa); Longchen Rabjam.
c
samten ngal so (bsam gtan ngal gso).
Beginning 7
A month later, His Holiness returned from his trip of spreading the dharma.
Because many great masters in the past predicted that anyone who connected
with him would certainly be reborn in Sukhavati, he decided to hold the Grand
Dharma Assembly of Sukhavati for the first time. The dharma assembly was
arranged to begin on the first day of Saga Dawa and continued for fifteen days.
0.3: The first Grand Dharma Assembly of Sukhavati with unprecedented
splendor
As soon as this news came out, hundreds of thousands of people from
different regions gathered at Nubzur for this event, pitching tents everywhere
on the grassy fields. It was a spectacular scene with shiny white tents spread
over the hills and fields and throngs of devotees like an ocean with no shore in
sight. When the devotees tossed their white offering khatas in the air, it looked
like waves of water crests. The sound of chanting mantras seemed to be louder
than the roar of dragons. No words could fully describe the momentum of this
grand event. I was so gratified that my loving parents also traveled a long way
from my hometown to attend this great gathering.
8
0.4: The first Grand Dharma Assembly of Sukhavati
0.5: Chojé teaching at the Sukhavati Dharma
Assembly
During the dharma assembly, His
Holiness bestowed the Amitabha empowerment, and every day bestowed
teachings on the Infinite Life Sutraa
and Ju Mipham Rinpoche’s Sun-like
Instructions of a Sage.
b He exhorted
everyone to chant the name of Buddha Amitabha a million times and to
abstain from the misdeed of abandoning the dharma and the five misdeeds
with immediate retribution. He assured everyone that in doing so, they would
certainly take rebirth in Sukhavati. In addition, Lama Mumtso3 also imparted
an Avalokiteshvara empowerment and the teaching on Thirty-Seven Precepts of
the Bodhisattvas.
c
By virtue of this Grand Dharma Assembly, numerous people created auspicious causes to be born in the pure land of Sukhavati.
a
od do¯ (’od mdo), Skt. sukhavativyuhasutra or amitabhavyuhasutra.
b drang song lung nyi sok (drang srong lung nyi sogs); Ju Mipham.
c gyalse lag len so dunma (rgyal sras lag len so bdun ma).
Beginning 9
A Mysterious Phone Call
On the afternoon of the first day of the Sukhavati Dharma Assembly, shortly
after His Holiness finished teaching, someone came running up to him and
said, “Khenpo Namdrol is trying to phone you, could you come to Nubzur
Township’s office to answer it?” At that time, Yidzhin Norbu was still sitting on
the dharma throne and chanting the dedication prayer known as the King of
Aspiration Prayers for Excellent Conducta
together with the sangha. Nevertheless,
he immediately stood up and asked me to accompany him to the office to answer
the phone.
At that time, there was only one landline at the Nubzur Township government
office, which was located roughly half a kilometer away from where the dharma
assembly took place. We took a car ride to the office. As soon as he arrived, His
Holiness took over the handset and shouted into it, “This is Jigphun,4
this is
Jigphun.” The phone quality was so poor that the voice was faint. He asked me
to try to listen. I took over the handset but also struggled to hear. After quite a
few tries while passing the handset back and forth between His Holiness and
myself, we finally understood what the phone call was about.
It turned out that Khenpo Namdrol had traveled all the way from India
and arrived in Chengdu. He had established the itinerary of His Holiness’ trip
abroad. Every stop was arranged with a specific schedule, and there was not
much time left before we were to set out. Khenpo Namdrol advised us to bring
our identification cards and passports to Chengdu the very next day to apply for
visas. His Holiness was unable to go to Chengdu because he was giving dharma
teachings every day during the assembly. Therefore, I traveled to Chengdu the
following day on my own, carrying the documents of everyone who was going
on that trip.
a
zangpo’i chod pa’i monlam kyi gyalpo (bzang po’i spyod pa’i smon lam kyi rgyal po).
10
As soon as I got to Chengdu and met up with Khenpo Namdrol, we hurried
to the American consulate. The consulate itself was not large, and in fact many
people had already had their visa applications rejected on that very day. A
female student even fainted upon learning her visa had been denied. Another
person’s visa was not only denied, but his visa was also stamped with a special
mark making it even more difficult for him to travel to the US in the future.
By this time, I was longing to go to America with my guru. Seeing that so
many people were rejected, I felt a little bit uneasy. Because usually a visa had
to be applied for in person and the other three applicants, His Holiness, Ani
Medron, and Lama Mumtso, were not present, I wondered if the consulate
would even seriously consider our applications. Finally, I arrived at the visa
officer’s window and gave him the four passports. The consulate officer was a
tall, red-haired man. He glanced at the passports and then looked at me, asking,
“Are you all going to America? Where are the others? They cannot get the visas
if they do not show up.” I had to explain, “They will not get here for a few
days because they are far away and have pressing obligations for the moment.
However, our schedule abroad is already planned, and your consulate only
works one or two days a week. So, I came alone, afraid it might already be too
late to wait for their arrival. Can you please help out?” Hearing my words and
looking at my maroon robe, he appeared very pleased and exclaimed with his
thumb up, “Very Good!” Then, he stamped all our passports! Having the visas
in hand, I was completely overjoyed.
Returning to Khenpo Namdrol’s hotel, I noticed that he even had a landline
in his own room! That was the first time I had laid eyes on such luxurious
accommodations. While we were conversing, he abruptly made an odd inquiry,
“How did you know the phone number of my room that day?” I asked, “Didn’t
you call us? I assumed that you had acquired the phone number of the township
office through your connections.” His eyes widened in surprise as he said,
Beginning 11
“How is that possible? I never knew there was a phone in the Nubzur Township
office!”
He went on, “I attempted to contact His Holiness the day after I arrived in
Chengdu. However, it was extremely challenging to reach Sertar, as there are
very few places with telephones. I was so worried that I had squandered a day
but had no idea what to do. In the afternoon, I became somewhat sleepy. As I
was dozing off, all of a sudden, the phone rang. I picked it up, still a bit dazed,
and then the voice of His Holiness came through, ‘This is Jigphun...’”
Making phone calls was rather expensive back then, but he did not pay for
that call, and neither did we. To this day, we still find this account to be extremely
incredible! Could this be the work of the dharma protectors in action?
Departed from the Land of Tibet
I returned to Larung Gar as soon as I got the visas, at which point the dharma
assembly was not yet over. After reporting the details to His Holiness, he
appeared very pleased.
Toward the end of the dharma assembly, he publicly announced his plan
to travel abroad, saying, “I am not going to western countries for sightseeing
and tourism, but rather in order to propagate the dharma there. This is very
meaningful. Since this is an unusual journey, I hope the sangha will pray to
the dharma protectors to bestow powerful blessings upon us for it.” Rinpoche
continued, “Khenpo Namdrol and Ngodrup Dorje from India will accompany
me, and from Larung Gar only Sodargye will go with me. Since we are traveling
such a distance and our return may therefore be uncertain, in case Sodargye
does not return, I believe that Tulku Tishta and Khenpo Tepa will not blame
me. While we are away, all the resident sangha should listen attentively to
12
the dharma teachings of the khenpos and khenmos and diligently study and
practice the dharma.”
Before departing, I appointed a Han Chinese khenpo and khenmo to teach A
Guide to the Bodhisattva Way of Lifea
to the male and female Han sangha separately
during my absence. Since my parents did not want to return to their hometown,
Drango, at that time, I borrowed a black yak-hair tent for them to stay at Larung
Gar.
Although I now had a bit more experience than the time we first went to India,
I still felt great pressure in having more responsibilities for traveling abroad. I
alone was not only responsible for His Holiness’ clothing, food, housing, and
health care, but also for everything related to his dharma teachings. I had to
carry a heavy yellow backpack at all times to keep commonly used medication,
a camera, a tape recorder, notebooks, and other necessities on hand.
On June 12th, the day after the completion of the dharma assembly, we left
the academy and arrived at Dartsedo in the afternoon. There, His Holiness met
an old friend, who was the head of the local police department. He reminded us,
“Both domestic and overseas situations are tense, complicated, and uncertain
at this moment. If you do not travel soon, I worry there might be unwanted
changes. Leave immediately and travel overseas directly from other provinces
or Hong Kong. In this way, you can avoid needing to acquire approval from the
provincial departments of Sichuan.”
On the 13th, we went from Dartsedo to Chengdu. On the early morning of
the 14th, we took the 5 am flight to Guangzhou. After we landed, a female lay
practitioner dressed in red came to receive us at the airport. She told us that our
accommodations had been arranged. Actually, we did not know her and were
not sure if we should trust her. But His Holiness said she looked like a devout
a
(byang chub sems dpa’i spyod pa la ’jug pa), Skt. bodhicharyavatara; Shantideva.
Beginning 13
Buddhist, and it was okay to follow her arrangements. We stayed in Guangzhou
for one night.
Difficulty Going through Customs
On June 15th, we arrived at Shenzhen customs en route to Hong Kong. Suddenly
the customs officer complicated the process and declared, “Something is wrong
with your passports! When you traveled to India in 1990, you left China with
a stamp but returned without one. That is illegal!” In 1990 when we returned
through Nepal, we had gotten temporary passports to facilitate the shipping of
buddha statues and other items, which was fairly common in that region. But
even after we explained this to the customs agents, they refused to listen and
insisted that the incident be reported.
They confined us in a room and barred us from leaving. We supplicated to
Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok for blessings to dispel the obstacles. He appeared to be in
a state of meditation at this point, praying solemnly to Orgyen Padmasambhava
and appealing to the dharma protectors King Gesara,5 and red Tsen (Tsi-u Marpo). He was silently murmuring something at the same time. A few minutes later,
the customs officer walked in and said that despite our unusual circumstances,
we were allowed to leave. It was truly a miracle that such a tricky situation just
suddenly reversed itself. This experience deepened my faith in the incredible
blessings of His Holiness and the dharma protectors.
After passing through the customs, we took a car to the Hong Kong Palyul
Center and spent the night there. The next morning, His Holiness asked us
to write down the prayers he had recited the day before at the customs’ office,
which read as follows:
a gling ge sar.
14
On the border between Shenzhen and Hong Kong, I felt a little worried
when it came to checking the passports. Then, in my pure meditative
experience, I had a vision of Orgyen Padmasambhava, the legendary
King Gesar, accompanied by the dharmapala red Tsen. Witnessing
them, I prayed:
The three secret qualities of all buddhas and bodhisattvas
In infinite pure realms are embodied in you;
In your presence, O Padmasambhava, to you I devotedly pray!
Grant blessings so all our wishes will be spontaneously fulfilled!
Your wisdom, compassion, and power have reached perfection.
You lovingly care for the beings of the Snow Land as
your only children.
You, the wermaa,6
of accomplishment, please look upon us and
Grant blessings so that all our aims may be easily accomplished!
Your compassionate response to supplication is swifter
than lightning.
Your way of enacting entrustment is more powerful
than a thunderbolt.
Yaksha Tsi-u Marpo, King Enemy Subduer,
Destroy all negative forces and obstacles immediately!
When such wholehearted supplications are made,
May terrors and illusory appearances dissolve into
the dharmadhatu.
May all attachments to self and the deity
Vanish in the non-referential dhatu of dharmakaya.
Ngawang Lodrö Tsungmé wrote down this prayer at the residence of
Drubwang Pema Norbub,7 on the morning of the following day.
a wer ma.
b grub dbang padma nor bu.
Beginning 15
During our stay in Hong Kong, Khenpo Namdrol gave me a yellow shirt
and a dhonka,8
telling me that they had been brought from India and that the
Indian cloth was of outstanding quality. I wore these two pieces of clothing
throughout the entire trip while attending many empowerments and teachings
given by His Holiness, so I grew quite attached to them. Until now, having worn
them for thirty years, they are still fresh and unfaded. In fact, wherever I go, I
carry these articles of clothing with me, which I acknowledge is a sentimental
attachment or perhaps a natural expression of my devotion to Yidzhin Norbu.
Flew over the Pacific Ocean
In those days when we embarked on this overseas journey, countries were not
as open or receptive as now. We were supposed to be the first Tibetans to go
directly from the Land of Tibet to the United States. I learned that it was summer
in the US, so I prepared a set of light clothing for His Holiness and bought a
new suitcase. Compared to our last trip to India, this time we did not bring
much food.
On June 16th, after a flight of about four hours from Hong Kong, we landed
at Tokyo International Airport. The airport was like a crystal palace. It was clean
and crystal clear, spacious and sparkly bright, and the floor was so spotless that
when you walked on it, you could even see your face reflected in it. That was
my first time being in a developed country, which made me feel like I was in a
different world.
The busy schedule did not allow His Holiness to stay in Japan for long.
Nonetheless, he spared time to lecture on the subject of compassion and wisdom
to those who were interested in Shingon Buddhism and Tibetan Buddhism. He
also explored the connection between Buddhism and science with the audience,
and during the discussion, he said, “Both science and Buddhism are essential
16
to humanity. While science fulfills people’s material needs, Buddhism offers
spiritual contentment. Neglecting Buddhism and single-mindedly pursuing
material pleasures would be only counterproductive. In many Asian countries,
both the rich at the top and the common people are in great need of the
Buddhadharma that is like nectar...” Everyone in the audience was extremely
inspired and showed great reverence for His Holiness.
0.6: Chojé giving teachings to some Japanese
After a short stay in Japan, we boarded the plane for our trip to Hawaii,
United States. His Holiness flew in economy class. I remember that there were
no complimentary meals on that plane, and all the flight attendants were
middle-aged or older. During the flight, His Holiness needed hot water to take
Beginning 17
his medication, and luckily, I had taught myself a little English, which came in
handy at the time. “Hot water” was the first English phrase that I spoke during
this trip.
For hours, the plane soared high above the infinite Pacific Ocean, where the
sky and the sea seemed to blend into a single blue hue. That sight was utterly
bewitching, but occasionally I felt somewhat desolate and lonesome, because
there was only one scene out the window of the plane for such a long time. His
Holiness gazed gently out through the window, with a red mala in his hands
and a compassionate and contemplative expression on his face.
After a seven-hour flight, we landed at Honolulu International Airport in
Hawaii, which is now known as the Daniel K. Inouye International Airport
(HNL).
1st Stop
June 17th–June 22nd
United States
Hawaii
Schedule
June 18th
Conferred the bodhisattva vow at Nechung Dorje Drayang Ling in the
morning and introduced the Great Perfection in the evening
June 19th
Gave the Peaceful Manjushri empowerment in the morning and taught the
practice manual of the Peaceful Manjushri, Placing Buddhahood within Reach, in
the afternoon
June 20th
Gave the Tendrel Nyesel empowerment in the morning and taught the practice
manual of the Peaceful Manjushri, Placing Buddhahood within Reach, in the afternoon; and afterward, visited Hawaii Volcanoes National Park and witnessed
the volcanoes that are located close to the Pacific Ocean
June 21st
Gave the empowerment of Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma in the morning and visited
the Punalu’u Black Sand Beach in the afternoon
20
A Tsampa Incident
Hawaii is an enchanting archipelago, a vacation destination for many famous
people. I had heard about the forests of sandalwood, the stunning coral reefs,
shimmering white sand beaches, azure ocean, dancing peacocks, and the gentle
ocean breeze that nourishes the spirit. However, when I glanced at the atlas on
the plane, this island chain appeared to be a tiny insect dropping into the vast
ocean, which gave me a feeling of being isolated and fearsome.
1.1: Hawaii in the infinite ocean
At customs, we had a bizarre incident when a police dog sniffed out a bag of
tsampa flour we had taken with us. The customs’ inspectors instantly dispatched
a group of police officers because in their eyes, this huge bag of “white powder”
was unquestionably narcotics and we Tibetans a group of smugglers. After a
lengthy explanation, they were still skeptical. I had to demonstrate by taking a
few bites of tsampa in front of them; thus, they were relieved and let us exit. The
officers also cautioned us against bringing these foods the next time because
many agriculture products from certain countries were prohibited entry into the
United States in case they may carry plant pests or foreign animal diseases.
Because of the unexpected incident, we missed our planned flight from
Honolulu to Hilo and took the next flight instead. Due to the lengthy journey
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 21
and a long delay at customs, as well as jet lag resulting from the eighteen-hour
time difference between Hawaii and the Land of Tibet, His Holiness appeared
to be rather exhausted. Finally, we boarded the rescheduled flight that took
about an hour to Hilo. In the late evening, we finally arrived at Nechung Dorje
Drayang Ling.
International Calls Were Very Expensive
As soon as we were settled in, His Holiness said to me, “Can you make a call to
inform our center that we have made it safely to the US? Also give this message
to my friend from the Dartsedo police office.”
Back then, because the only prevalent communication devices were landline
telephones, I asked the resident monk Lama Lobzang Dhonden for advice
because it was late and finding a phone booth was not easy for me. He said
that I could use his phone, a big mobile phone that was like a brick. I called
the Nubzur Township office many times but was never able to reach anyone.
However, I was able to reach His Holiness’ friend at the Dartsedo police office,
so I requested his assistance in passing the information on to the sangha at
Larung Gar.
Even though he was a little inebriated that day, he was sober enough to
tell me, “On June 16th after your group departed, I got a warning from my
superiors saying you were not authorized to leave the country. It is good to
know that you have arrived now...” Khenpo Namdrol cut me off before I could
respond, saying, “Hang up, hang up, international calls are very expensive!”
His Holiness called this friend the next day and spoke with him for a little
while longer. Khenpo Namdrol peeked at him several times but dared not
remind Rinpoche of the expense. I chuckled to myself as I noticed this from the
side.
22
The Translator Arrived
1.2: Sangye Khandro in 1993
The well-known American dharma translator
Sangye Khandro, who had interpreted for many
great Tibetan lamas, would serve His Holiness
as his translator during this trip in America. That
day, she, too, had taken a flight from California to
meet with Kyabjé Rinpoche in Hawaii. Once the
interpreter was in position, Rinpoche’s journey
to teach the dharma in the US was ready to
begin.
The First Dharma Transmission
On the morning of June 18th, Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche conferred the bodhisattva vow ceremony at Nechung Dorje Drayang Ling, also known as Wood
Valley Temple. Because it was his first dharma teaching in the US, the host
center of this dharma activity organized people to sing auspicious verses for
Chojé and made the following introduction:
We have incredibly unique karma to be together here on this auspicious
occasion. His Holiness Jigme Phuntsok is unable to stay for an extended
period of time, so we shall fully embrace the dharma teachings during
the course of the next short but precious four days and make a firm
commitment to uphold and practice the teachings since this opportunity
is quite rare.
In the Land of Tibet, to receive the dharma directly from Khenpo Rinpoche,
pilgrims must endure great hardship and take a long journey from India
or other parts of the Land of Tibet to the area where he resides. It is
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 23
not only quite hard to go there but even more challenging to stay there,
because the place where Rinpoche lives is so cold and impoverished.
Nonetheless, individuals who seek the dharma are willing to go through
a great deal of difficulty just to be able to hear teachings from His Holiness
in person.
Now, thanks to our past aspirations and prayers, all of us here are able
to meet Yidzhin Norbu with such ease and sit here comfortably, seeing
Rinpoche’s majestic face and hearing his nectar-like dharma teaching.
Even though you lead a busy life and have a lot of obligations, you must
put everything on hold for these few days, so that you can benefit fully
from this series of teachings. The time to be with such a revered master
as Rinpoche is short but so precious that we must abandon worldly
ambitions and give the teachings our undivided attention. Also, be aware
that a great number of Buddhists are here together to receive the dharma,
and all of us need to maintain a virtuous intention with the same hope that
the dharma we’re going to receive will be firmly upheld and extensively
disseminated!
At the commencement of the transmission, sitting graciously with compassion on the dharma throne, Yidzhin Norbu spontaneously sang an auspicious
verse that we had never heard before:
The dome of the sky is full of rainbows spread by auspicious
celestial maidens.
The ground is filled with auspicious people who enjoy the ten virtues.
The location completes the auspicious peaceful and
wrathful mandalas.
May auspiciousness be perfected and ever-increasing!
24
After that, he wished everyone, “Tashi Delek” and explained this verse:
You have sung some auspicious verses for me before you receive the
teaching. Therefore, I also chanted an auspicious verse for you before
I impart the dharma teachings.
What does this verse mean? The opening sentence states that the
auspicious celestial maidens are deeply joyful about this special and
auspicious occasion, so they spread colorful clouds and dazzling
rainbows that fill the entirety of space.
The second sentence means that after turning the wheel of dharma at
this auspicious location, everyone will delightedly carry out the ten
virtuous deeds.
The third is that Hawaii completes the signs of the peaceful mandala
because it is a place like the blissful pure land of Sukhavati. It is also
endowed with the signs of the wrathful mandala because it features
fiery volcanoes.
The last sentence points out that this location is quite fortunate. May
this auspiciousness last, spread, and ever increase! May everything be
complete, always fortunate and sublime!
I did not prepare this verse in advance; it just came to me on the spur
of the moment. I was instantly inspired after hearing your beautiful
and auspicious chanting, and I spontaneously sang this song of good
fortune for you.
Everyone was thrilled upon hearing this, as Chojé’s words were like rays
of warm sunlight shining into everyone’s heart. A few peacocks were leisurely
roaming on the lawn in front of the temple and quite timely made piercing calls
that seemed to pass the mood on to everyone.
Following that, Yidzhin Norbu officially bestowed the bodhisattva vow.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 25
Homage to the root gurus:
Embodiments of all the buddhas of past, present, and future;
All-pervasive lords of oceanic mandalas and buddha families;
Glorious and noble masters whose kindness is unparalleled;
Precious root gurus—I bow down at your perfectly unblemished
feet and prostrate myself in devotion.
I take refuge in you! Grant your blessings, I pray!
Homage to Buddha Shakyamuni:
Who could ever tire of looking upon your noble face as bright and
clear as a flower in bloom?
The radiant stamen of your signs and marks are like nectar for the
eyes of all beings.
The petals of your compassion extend to encompass the three worlds.
O Lord of Sages, White Lotus, rest your lotus feet today in the lotus
pool of my mind!
Homage to Padmasambhava:
You are the embodiment of the wisdom and power of all buddhas,
Who graciously upholds countless wheels of mandala and
Takes the appearance as a great sage in this world.
You are the unparalleled Lotus King of the Supreme Vehicle!
Homage to Venerable Longchenpa:
In the expanse where all phenomena come to exhaustion, you
encountered the wisdom of dharmakaya;
In the clear light of empty space, you saw sambhogakaya buddha
fields appear;
To work for the benefit of all beings, you appeared to them in
nirmanakaya form—
Omniscient Sovereign of Dharma, I prostrate myself before you!
26
Homage to Ju Mipham Rinpoche:
The wisdom of Manjushri, Lion of Speech, arose in your heart,
And you trained in the infinite aspirations of Samantabhadra,
Performing the enlightened actions of the buddhas and their heirs—
Manjughosha Guru, at your feet, I pay homage!
Homage to the Three Roots:
Vidyadharas of mind, symbolic, and oral transmission lineages,
Deities in peaceful, wrathful, and passionate forms,
Dakinis of three spheres, and protectors of three tantras—
To the ocean-like gatherings of the Three Roots, I prostrate
to all of you.
Homage to Manjushri:
Now, from the wish to benefit others,
I visualize you upon the fresh lotus of my heart.
May the melodious sound of your nectar-like speech,
Confer its splendor upon my mind, O Manjushri!
You fully know the suffering of the three realms.
You extinguish the fierce fire of the hells and others.
As I swiftly benefit beings with great diligence,
I supplicate the noble ones—please bestow your power!
Inviting all beings to listen to the dharma:
In the worlds of the ten directions,
For the disciples of all the sugatas,
The wonderful dharma of the root teacher will be raining—
Those of you who wish to listen, please gather here!
To benefit all sentient beings as limitless as space, please generate the
unsurpassed bodhicitta!
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 27
Today I am extremely pleased and happy because all the circumstances
for the dharma teaching are perfectly gathered, including the place,
the time, the teacher, the retinue, and the teaching.
Five Perfections
The Perfect Time. I am particularly delighted about the time. According
to the Tibetan Calendar, this month is the Saga Dawa month during
which the Buddha’s birth, enlightenment, and nirvana took place. This
is the month when the Buddha’s enlightened activities began and
ended. So, it is the most auspicious period of the year.
I am also pleased that in this month right before I came here, we held a
Grand Dharma Assembly of Sukhavati, in which some three hundred
thousand Tibetans and more than ten thousand monastics gathered
and made the aspiration to be reborn in Sukhavati. This auspicious
gathering marked a favorable beginning because everyone present
planted the seed to be reborn in the western pure land of Sukhavati.
The Perfect Place. Then, just after that gathering, I came to the United
States, one of the most powerful countries in the world, to teach you
the dharma. This interdependent arising is very auspicious, so I am
deeply joyful.
The Perfect Teaching. In terms of the dharma, I am especially pleased.
Although there are many good and wonderful religions in the world
that bring people peace and happiness, being Buddhists, we are very
fortunate to be able to encounter the dharma and be aware of its value
in that the dharma can bring us permanent peace and happiness. Such
awareness is a sign of understanding the significance of “the excellent
eon.” Most Buddhists are well aware of this important fact, but this
understanding does not come from blind faith.
Although the Hinayana path that leads to self-liberation is also worthwhile, its motivation is only for oneself. Comparatively, the Mahayana
28
pursuit is much grander because it is motivated by the mind to benefit all sentient beings instead of just focusing on personal liberation.
Therefore, we are very fortunate to follow the Mahayana path. Especially, it is even more fortunate for us to meet the Vajrayana, or
Secret Mantrayana, which is the pinnacle of the Mahayana that has the
potential to enable us to recognize the nature of mind and to quickly
achieve fully enlightened buddhahood in a single lifetime. We are so
lucky to have all these coincidences.
The Perfect Teacher. Personally, I encountered Buddhism at birth, began
to give dharma teachings at the age of fourteen, and have been carrying
on this undertaking ever since. I used to be quite adept at teaching.
However, now as I am getting older, my health has declined, and my
eyes no longer see texts clearly. Therefore, I feel that the quality of my
teaching decreases in such a situation.
I had very little chance to learn about politics, technologies, and
traditions of different western countries. I do not even know the eating
habits. Therefore, I am a little embarrassed that the way I explain the
dharma may fail your expectations and cannot satisfy your interest. I
can only explain that this is the result of the karma from our previous
lives. If there are any mistakes in what I say, you can correct me.
The Perfect Retinue. Today, most of you are Buddhists from different
countries and nationalities, and you all have a certain level of faith
and intelligence.
These are the five kinds of perfection.
Common Preliminaries
Before I get into the main topic, let me first emphasize the difficulty
of obtaining a human body. Now that we have already gained the
precious human body that has the freedom and potential to practice
the dharma, it is very rare. Why? First of all, it is rare in terms of its
cause. This human body is the result of accumulating merit, abstaining
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 29
from non-virtue, and practicing virtue throughout numerous lifetimes.
It is not obtained through other means.
Secondly, this can be illustrated by an analogy. If we throw beans onto
a wall, the chance of a single bean sticking on the wall is very slim.
However, the chance of getting a human body is even less than that.
Thirdly, a human body is very rare in terms of its quantity. The Buddha
taught in the sutras that the number of people who practice nonvirtuous activities is equivalent to the number of dust particles on the
entire earth, while the number of people who have attained the perfect
human body and practice virtuous deeds is equivalent to the number
of dust particles on a thumbnail.
Having obtained such a rare human body is of great significance. If
you want to gain long life, health, wealth, and fame in this life, it is
possible for you to have all of these by relying on this human body.
Moreover, if you want to engage in dharma practice for the welfare of
future lifetimes and to eventually attain the inconceivable buddhahood
that is free from any suffering both physically and mentally, it is also
possible for you to accomplish this goal by utilizing this body.
However, while you are endowed with such a precious body, if you
do not seize the opportunity by all means to practice the dharma
for the benefit of self and others, you may quickly lose it because
death may come at any time. This is the impermanence of life. At the
moment of death, you will certainly drift to other realms under the
force of karma; this is the infallible karmic law. At that time, there
would be no freedom to practice virtuous deeds and no opportunity
to seek happiness; this is samsara, the repetitive cycle of frustration
and suffering. Therefore, when you are still free and at ease right at
this moment, you should practice pure and wholesome deeds.
30
1.3: Chojé with a warm smile
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 31
As for how to perform virtuous deeds, our root teacher Buddha
Shakyamuni, out of his great loving kindness and compassion, taught
many methods and compared them respectively to ordinary metal,
gold, diamonds, and wish-fulfilling jewels. Among all these practices,
the most supreme are those that are like wish-fulfilling jewels. So, out
of so many methods that the Buddha had taught, which one do you
prefer? The average, the medium, the better, or the best?
(The audience answered, “The best!” Then, everyone laughed.)
Ha ha, well, since you want to practice the best dharma, let me tell you
that among the 84,000 teachings of the Buddha, there is nothing better
than bodhicitta and the Great Perfection.
Bodhicitta is a teaching that all Mahayana practitioners can practice.
The Great Perfection, on the other hand, is a Vajrayana teaching of
Secret Mantra, which does belong to the Mahayana teaching, but can
be practiced only by those of particularly sharp faculties and is not
applicable to all Mahayana practitioners. Do you want to practice both
or just one?
(The audience said, “Both!” And everyone laughed.)
Very good! It is excellent that you want to practice both. Most of the
great masters in the Land of Tibet practiced these two together, and
seldom chose only one of them. It is very excellent that you have such
an aspiration!
Today, I am here to first introduce bodhicitta, and then give you the
bodhisattva vow.
The Qualities of Bodhicitta
Now, I will talk briefly about bodhicitta.
With his great loving kindness and compassion, our root teacher Buddha Shakyamuni had repeatedly observed over countless eons what
32
would be the most beneficial to sentient beings and would best help
them to eliminate their suffering. By thorough investigation and reflection, the Buddha found that there was no better way than to practice
the precious jewel-like bodhicitta. Bodhicitta can temporarily bring
sentient beings peace and happiness in the human and celestial realms
and ultimately enable all of them to attain supreme buddhahood.
Therefore, people in this world who want to be free from suffering
and attain happiness must rely on bodhicitta.
Once bodhicitta arises in a person’s mind stream, that person is no
longer an ordinary being. The moment bodhicitta arises, in terms of the
name, the person’s name becomes that of a bodhisattva, an heir of the
tathagatas, who is completely beyond the realms of mundane beings. In
terms of the significance, from then on, the person becomes the object
of reverence for celestial beings, nagas, rakshasas, yakshas, gandharvas,
humans, spirits, and other beings. Knowing the inconceivable benefits
bodhicitta brings us, we need to cultivate bodhicitta.
As an example, one tael9 of magical, alchemical elixir has the potential
to instantly turn a thousand taels of ordinary iron into gold. In the
same way, bodhicitta can quickly transform this ordinary human body
that is impure and unpleasant into the buddha body that is so perfect
in appearance that beings will not tire of seeing it and that can benefit
all sentient beings at all times.
Without bodhicitta, all forms of good deeds, including those of the
body, like doing prostrations and circumambulations, and those of the
speech, like chanting sutras and mantras, would be like the banana
tree that bears fruit only once and then decays. Quite the contrary, the
good deeds carried out with bodhicitta are like the wish-fulfilling tree
in the celestial world or a fruit tree on earth, which keeps bearing fruit
one after another. Bodhicitta can result in rebirth as a benevolent ruler,
like a chakravartin or universal monarch on earth or Indra and Brahma
in the celestial realm. Finally, you can attain supreme buddhahood to
constantly benefit all sentient beings spontaneously and pervasively.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 33
With bodhicitta, the mundane negative deeds you have accrued from
beginningless time, such as killing and stealing, will be burned in a
flash, like a heap of hay incinerated by fire. Even if you have committed
a heinous crime, such as killing your father or mother, if you later give
rise to bodhicitta, you will be liberated in the snap of a finger from the
lower realms instead of suffering there endlessly. Therefore, those who
want to purify their negative karma should also practice bodhicitta.
The above are a few of the qualities of bodhicitta. If you want to
learn this topic more extensively, the Sutra of the Great Bounteousness
of the Buddhasa gives a detailed explanation through more than one
hundred analogies. If you want to understand the meritorious qualities
of bodhicitta in the most concise way, keep in mind the following three
points. First, if you possess bodhicitta, you will not fall into the three
lower realms. Second, if you possess bodhicitta, even without diligent
practice, you can still be effortlessly reborn in the higher realms of
humans and gods. Third, if you possess bodhicitta, you can attain
the fruition of buddhahood and pass beyond the cycle of old age and
death.
Today we are gathering here under auspicious connections. Let us take
this wonderful opportunity to receive the bodhisattva vow together.
Preliminary: Take Refuge
First, before taking the refuge vows, clearly visualize the space in
front of you to be filled with the buddhas of the ten directions, the
bodhisattva mahasattvas of the ten bhumis, and the lineage of vajra
masters. With them as witness, you will generate bodhicitta. After
visualizing this, recite this after me:
All buddhas who dwell in the ten directions,
All great bodhisattvas on the ten levels,
a pakpa sangye palpoche do¯ (’phags pa sangs rgyas phal po che’i mdo), Skt. buddhavatamsakasutra.
34
All great teachers, vajra holders—please turn your minds
toward me, I pray!
Before developing bodhicitta, you must embrace the refuge vows.
Without taking refuge in the Three Jewels, it is impossible to accomplish
any level of dharma. So first I will give the vows of refuge.
When taking refuge in the Three Jewels, first you go for refuge in the
Buddha. That is to vow that from now on and for all lifetimes going
forward, refuge is taken in the root teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni. You
will not convert to any other teacher who promotes a different doctrine
that goes against the Buddha’s teaching. To make such a vow is to take
refuge in the Buddha.
Next is to take refuge in the dharma. That is to vow to practice the
dharma that the Buddha taught, and to not embrace any doctrine other
than that. This is the vow of taking refuge in the dharma.
Third is to take refuge in the sangha. That is to vow to follow the
Buddha’s disciples or followers, such as Manjushri, Vajrapani, Avalokiteshvara, and Padmasambhava, take them as an example by aligning
yourself with them through view and conduct, and thus learn and
practice the path of liberation. This is the vow of taking refuge in the
sangha.
In short, even if your life is in danger, you must never abandon the
Three Jewels and must promise to always follow them.
Next, recite the refuge vows three times.
Until the essence of enlightenment is reached,
I go for refuge in the Buddha;
I take refuge in the dharma,
And in the entire host of bodhisattvas.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 35
(Disciples recited after Yidzhin Norbu three times.)
Now you have taken the refuge vows. Do you understand?
Today, you have taken the refuge vows and become Buddhists. The
difference between a Buddhist and non-Buddhist is whether or not
refuge has been taken.
You also need to know that from now on, whatever dharma you practice
will have obvious results, and the power generated will certainly be
significant. From now on, whenever you have any fear or suffering,
just pray to the Three Jewels wholeheartedly, and you will certainly
receive protection. If you wish for worldly fame, happiness, power,
and status, just pray to the Three Jewels sincerely, and these benefits
will come to you as well.
After taking refuge in the Three Jewels, you must abstain from intentionally harming any sentient being and try to truly benefit them
instead. This is most essential!
Main Practice: Generate Bodhicitta
Next is the main part of the ritual for receiving the bodhisattva
vow—the generation of bodhicitta. There are two types of bodhicitta,
aspirational bodhicitta and practical bodhicitta. Aspirational bodhicitta
is the wish or prayer for all sentient beings to attain buddhahood. In
addition, practical bodhicitta is to engage in the many bodhisattva
practices and disciplines through the six paramitas of generosity,
discipline, patience, and others.10 That is the practical application of
the aspiration in order to actualize the wish.
Now, join me in reciting the verses for taking the bodhisattva vow
three times. After the first recitation, visualize that you have generated
aspirational bodhicitta. After the second recitation, visualize that
you have generated practical bodhicitta. After the third recitation,
visualize that these two bodhicitta’s arise simultaneously in your mind.
36
Following this, take the bodhisattva vow, and you can then be called a
child of the buddhas and bodhisattva.
Just as all the buddhas of the past
Have brought forth the awakened mind
And through discipline the bodhisattvas
Abided and trained step-by-step,
Likewise, for the benefit of beings,
I give rise to the bodhicitta,
Follow their conduct, and
Will abide and train myself.
Now that you have received the bodhisattva vow and have developed
the precious jewel-like bodhicitta in your mind stream, you can be
called a bodhisattva. In particular, if on the basis of aspirational bodhicitta you really benefit sentient beings through your body and speech,
that is the practical application of bodhicitta.
Of the two types of bodhicitta, the latter is supreme. Although aspirational bodhicitta also has all the above-mentioned qualities, when
practical bodhicitta arises in your mind, even if you fail to actually perform good deeds but rather just relax and sleep, the virtue and merit
will continue to endure, like the steady stream of a river, increasing every day. The qualities of practical bodhicitta are so vast that even space
cannot contain them. The benefits of this are inconceivable. Such being
the case, of these two kinds of bodhicitta, it is more important that you
focus on the practical application of your bodhicitta aspiration.
Why does bodhicitta bring about such great merit? To illustrate, just
as space is boundless, the number of sentient beings is boundless. The
object of bodhicitta is to wish that all countless sentient beings obtain
happiness and freedom from all suffering. Because this aspiration is
for the benefit of innumerable sentient beings, through reasoning, you
can understand why it produces vast merit.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 37
Surely, the incredible merit of bodhicitta, the altruistic intention to
benefit all sentient beings, can also be illustrated by many stories
from the Buddhist sutras. For example, many eons ago, there was a
merchant guide named Daughter of Sea Captain Vallabha.11 Due to
the force of negative karma, he was reborn in a lower realm, which
was the karmic result of kicking his mother in the head with his foot in
his previous life. Karmically, he had to experience the pain of the iron
wheel spinning on his head and smashing his brain to a pulp. At that
time, he thought to himself, “There are so many beings suffering such
pain. What an agony! I wish all their sufferings will ripen upon me and
their pain disappear immediately.” When such an aspiration occurred
to him, the iron wheel rose into the air, and he was immediately freed
from suffering and enjoyed peace and happiness.
If his intention of wishing just one class of sentient beings to be free
from suffering has such incredible merit, it goes without saying that
our bodhicitta of wishing all sentient beings throughout the universe
to be free from suffering and to enjoy happiness has immeasurable
merit.
Furthermore, if someone makes offerings to the buddhas of the three
times over hundreds of millions of years with the seven treasures,
delicious food, exquisite clothing, and so forth, their merit and virtue
are naturally great. But if a person has the kind intention to wish all
sentient beings to attain buddhahood even once, their merit and virtue
far exceed the former.
Practice after Taking the Vow: Rejoice in Oneself and Others
The bodhicitta is as precious and rare as a wish-fulfilling jewel. It is
said that the wish-fulfilling jewel appeared at the beginning of the
eon, but not now. When a universal monarch appears in the world, the
wish-fulfilling jewel will appear along with the monarch and this has
the potential to rain down clothes, food, treasures, and so on within
one yojana12 radius to satisfy sentient beings. It is a precious treasure
38
that is only obtained by those with great merit, and unfortunate ones
usually do not have access to it.
If we compare bodhicitta to the wish-fulfilling jewel, bodhicitta is much
more significant. Now that each of you have generated bodhicitta, you
should rejoice from the bottom of your hearts. In this state of mind,
everyone please recite after me the following verses of being joyful for
your generation of bodhicitta:
Today, my life has born its fruit.
This human state has now been well-achieved.
Today, I take my birth in Buddha’s lineage,
To become the Buddha’s child and heir.
In every way, I will undertake
Activities befitting such a rank,
And I will refrain from sullying
Or compromising this exalted and faultless lineage.
I am like a blind man who has found
A precious gem inside a heap of dust,
For so it is, by some strange chance,
This precious bodhicitta has been born in me.
Next, please all sentient beings with the following words, telling them,
“May the eight classes of gods and demons, including nagas, powerful
ghosts and gods, and other non-human beings in this world, have
a joyful mind and do your best to help and protect me. Now that I
have made the vow and promise to free you from the suffering of
samsara and to place you in the fruition of buddhahood, you should
take delight in this. In particular, Goddess of Volcanoes and Fire,
Madame Pele, ruler of the Hawaiian Islands, possesses the appearance
of burning fire. You and all the other protectors of the land must
now be happy and rejoice. I will do my utmost to benefit you, and
you should do your utmost to dispel obstacles and create favorable
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 39
conditions for the protection of the dharma centers. Especially, please
safeguard those who learn and practice bodhicitta.”
While thinking in this way, recite after me once again:
Today, within the sight of all protectors,
I summon beings, calling them to buddhahood,
And until that state is reached, may they receive every
earthly joy!
May gods and demigods and all the rest rejoice!
May bodhicitta, precious and sublime,
Arise where it has not yet arisen;
And where it has arisen, may it never fail,
But rather grow and flourish, ever-increasing forever.
Now this session is complete, so let us dedicate the merit together.
Upon hearing this lecture, I felt so happy to have received such precious
teachings. As His Holiness bestowed the bodhisattva vow, he clearly laid out
the relevant benefits, the pith instructions, and the steps for the entire ritual.
This made me recognize that this special liturgy was easy to perform and the
best choice to follow if in the future, we would take the bodhisattva vow by
ourselves or initiate it to others.
After a short break, the audience was eager to raise questions to Khenpo
Jigme Phuntsok.
Q: I am still not sure how to take refuge in the Three Jewels. Could
you please explain further?
HHJP: To take refuge in the Three Jewels, you should think of the
Buddha as the sole unsurpassable guide, the dharma as the sole
unsurpassable sublime path, and the sangha as the sole unsurpassable
companion. You should develop such a resolution for taking refuge.
40
Q: When talking about practical bodhicitta, you mentioned generosity,
discipline, and patience out of the six paramitas. What are the other
three?
HHJP: The remaining three paramitas include: diligence, a joyful
mind that embraces virtuous activities; meditative concentration, a
single-pointed meditation without distraction; and transcendental
wisdom, a state of directly realizing emptiness.
Q: What is yana? What is the difference between the Sutrayana, the
causal vehicle, and the Vajrayana of Secret Mantra?
HHJP: Yana literally means “vehicle.” Through vehicles, sentient beings
are sent to the destination, so this process is called a causal vehicle, and
the destination to be reached is called a resultant vehicle.
The text Verse Summary of the Perfection of Wisdoma
said:
What then is the vehicle that leads to awakening?
Mounted upon it, all beings can reach nirvana.
It is vast like space and an immeasurable palace, and
This brings forth joy, happiness, and peace as
the supreme vehicle of all.
The Sutrayana holds the view that an ordinary being can only attain
buddhahood by following the spiritual path, which in their perspective
is separate from the fruition. Comparatively, the Secret Mantrayana,
the resultant vehicle, or Vajrayana, believes that sentient beings are
originally buddhas, and they just need to be reintroduced to this
inherent nature. So, in its view, the path and the fruition are not
separate.
Q: We are so glad to have you here! It is said that the Land of
Tibet has undergone devastating damage. While it is normal for any
a pakpa sherab kyi parol tu chinpa düpa tsik su chepa (’phags pa shes rab kyi pha rol tu phyin pa sdud pa
tshigs su bcad pa), Skt. Prajñap¯ aramit ¯ aratnagun ¯ .
asañcayagath ¯ a¯.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 41
place to encounter some difficulties, in your place with Buddhism
flourishing, blessings abounding, and people practicing bodhicitta, all
such conditions raise the question of why such a sacred place has to
endure immense suffering.
HHJP: Generally speaking, it is very rare for those who have generated
bodhicitta to undergo harm. So, when it happens, it is a source of
great joy because of the opportunity to use the adverse circumstance to
enhance practice.Mahayana practitioners always look for opportunities
to enhance their practice. Taking our root teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni,
as an example, at the causal stage many others inflicted harm on him,
so that gave him the opportunity to practice generosity, such as giving
away even body parts to benefit others.
Certainly, there are other causes for the Land of Tibet to experience a
hard time, but for now, this reason is good enough.
Q: Is it true that the bodhicitta cultivated in our minds belongs to the
category of mind? Does it have any effect on our bodies?
HHJP: Of course, bodhicitta is the awakened mind. As long as you
are alive and the body functions, the mind of bodhicitta will have an
impact on the physical body.
42
A Manjushri Statue Bestowed by Manjushri
That afternoon, after giving the bodhisattva vow, although His Holiness was
supposed to have a good rest to get over jet lag, many local people arrived
at the temple with the wish to meet him and receive his blessing. Westerners
really love to ask questions. Out of curiosity, many people came up with a great
number of questions regarding His Holiness himself, Larung Gar, the Land of
Tibet, and so forth.
I can clearly recall that a man asked His Holiness, “I have heard that during
the Cultural Revolution, when Red Guards found you meditating in a cave,
they attempted to drag you away. However, at that moment you managed to
quickly increase the size and weight of your body, so they failed to move you.
How did you do that?” Amused, His Holiness answered, “That was only their
perception. I was just playing with them.”
I also remember Miguel Schwabe, one of our hosts at Nechung Dorje Drayang
Ling, and he spoke some Tibetan. I recall that whenever Rinpoche was not
giving teachings, Miguel would find a chance to go to his room and ask all
kinds of questions. I learned that His Holiness had even demonstrated some
miraculous powers in front of him. On October 20th, 2017, I sent a person to
interview him, and this is what he told us:
I asked Rinpoche, “How was your pilgrimage to Mount Wutai?”a
Rinpoche said, “Oh, there were too many people. On my way to Mount
Wutai, since the news about my visit spread very quickly, more and more
people gathered in the group. Since most people took the train, the train
got more and more crowded. The overpacked train even worried the
police. In those days, most people in Han Chinese regions had no idea
of Tibetan Buddhism, but they wanted to go on a pilgrimage with me.
a Riwo Tse Nga (ri bo rtse lnga), Wu Tai Shan (Pin. Wutái Sh ˇ an¯ ); Five-Peaked Mountain.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 43
Actually, I did not want to simply make a pilgrimage; I preferred doing a
retreat.”
I asked again, “Did you meet Bodhisattva Manjushri?”
Rinpoche said, “Of course. I met Manjushri when my retreat at Sudhana
Cave was about to end. So, I knew that retreat must be very good.”
I followed up, “Did you get anything from Manjushri?”
Rinpoche answered, “Yes. Here.”
While replying, he gently raised his hand to the top of his head. Immediately a small statue about three inches tall appeared in his hand. He
did not reach into his pockets, he did not touch anywhere on the table, he
only put his hand in the air slightly above the top of his head with ease.
Then, a statue emerged in his hand.
While my eyes were glued on that statue, Rinpoche gracefully handed
it to me. With excitement, I immediately reached my hands to it. After
quickly touching the top of my head with it, I held it close to my eyes
and gazed at it carefully. It occurred to me, “This is unbelievable! I am
holding a Manjushri statue bestowed by Bodhisattva Manjushri.”
That statue is so special, extremely exquisite, and gorgeous. It was quite a
weight in terms of that size. I do not believe it was a hallucination.
1.4: Miguel gesturing the size of the Manjushri statue
After examining it for a few minutes, I returned it to Rinpoche. It
then disappeared from his hands.
Amazed by what I had seen, I pondered, “Was Rinpoche showing
supernormal power to me?”
I had met so many great masters
and saw their manifestations of
supernormal power too. But Rinpoche’s manifestation is a different story.
44
Totally awed, I wondered if it might have something to do with his
previous reincarnation as Lerab Lingpa, the great terton.
I am so fortunate! I do not think there are many chances to see what I saw.
1.5: Left to right: Lama Lobzang Dhonden, Lama Mumtso, Ani Medron, Chojé, Miguel Schwabe,
Khenpo Sodargye, and Greg Herbst
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 45
Introduction to the Great Perfection
When imparting the bodhisattva vow in the morning, Chojé mentioned that
the two most essential trainings in Tibetan Buddhism were the practices of
bodhicitta and the Great Perfection. The topic of bodhicitta was already covered
during the ceremony, and as for the Great Perfection, a series of teachings
were scheduled in the following two days, which were the empowerment and
practical instructions on the Peaceful Manjushri.
a
In order to help the audience
gain understanding and cultivate faith in the Great Perfection beforehand,
Khenpo Rinpoche gave the following teachings in the evening:
You are the embodiment of the wisdom and power of all buddhas,
Who graciously upholds countless wheels of mandalas and
Takes the appearance as a great sage in this world.
You are the unparalleled Lotus King of the supreme vehicle!
For anyone who embraces a religious tradition, whether a Buddhist
or follower of other religions, at times such as giving or receiving
teachings and engaging in practices, it is normally required to first
praise and pay homage to their principal deity. Following this common
practice, here, I praise and pay homage to my own principal deity and
make the commitment to turn the wheel of dharma for sentient beings
that have karmic connections with me.
Then, according to the extraordinary tradition of Mahayana Buddhism,
as I mentioned earlier, it is indispensable to generate the supreme
enlightened mind, bodhicitta, every time before giving teachings,
receiving teachings, or engaging in practices. Speaking of the attitude
of listening to a dharma teaching, you should tune the mind with the
aspiration, “I am listening to the dharma in order to place all sentient
beings in the state of buddhahood.” Such an attitude is very crucial.
a
jampal zhi (’jam dpal zhi).
46
So, how can you gain the ability to place all sentient beings in buddhahood through listening? To this question, I will refer to a teaching from
Buddha Shakyamuni. The Buddha said, “The merit of meditating for
nine years is not as great as teaching or hearing the dharma once.” That
is to say, even if you do a nine-year solitary retreat, it is less beneficial
than if you listen to the dharma in front of a qualified teacher and
contemplate its meaning. Therefore, for those who aim to be of benefit
to sentient beings, listening to the dharma is particularly necessary.
Moreover, the Buddha also taught in the scriptures that in order to
signify the commencement of a dharma teaching, it is necessary to
first sound the dharma drum, blow the conch, and strike a dharma
gong. If anyone hears these sounds, even if it is an animal, a beast,
or a bird, the door to the lower realms is blocked for them, and they
will no longer take such a lowly rebirth. If that kind of benefit can be
produced, then it is needless to say that listening to the dharma is of
inconceivable benefit. Through listening to the dharma, you can dispel
the darkness of your ignorance and foolishness. When you encounter a
wise person, listening to the teachings or instructions from him or her
is the best gift you can receive, through which you will gain incredible
benefits in this life.
Further, receiving dharma teachings brings about great benefit for
your future lifetimes. As said in a sutra, “Even if you repeatedly make
offerings to the meritorious field of the Three Jewels and practice
generosity to sentient beings in the lower realms for years, it is not as
beneficial as listening to the dharma only one single time.” Also, some
sutra says that building all kinds of stupas and statues of buddhas all
over the world with seven types of precious gems is not as good as
hearing a four-line stanza of the Mahayana teaching. It is also stated
in many sutras that even if you make all sorts of material offerings
and do all kinds of service every day to the buddhas and bodhisattvas
dwelling in the countless realms of the ten directions, it could not
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 47
produce the same great merit as to hear one four-line stanza of the
Mahayana teaching.
Since listening to the Mahayana teaching has such great benefits, I
hope you can listen to this teaching with the good motivation, “By the
virtue of listening to this dharma, may all sentient beings be free from
suffering and experience happiness.”
The Appearance of Lord Buddha in This World
What kind of dharma am I going to teach today?
Countless eons ago, when our root teacher, the Lord of Great Compassion, the unsurpassable Buddha Shakyamuni, was in his causal stage
of training, he met the Great Sage of Shakya, the Tathagata Shakya
Thubchen, who had appeared in the world at that time. He offered
the Buddha a pair of boots, a kashika parasol,13 and five hundred
seashells. Having made the offerings, for the first time, he generated
the supreme bodhicitta, “In order to benefit sentient beings, I shall
henceforth follow the bodhisattva path.”
Afterward, he began the bodhisattva training of the six paramitas in a
gradual way. He practiced generosity, discipline, patience, diligence,
and meditative concentration in order to accomplish the accumulation
of conceptual merit. Also, he trained in the development of the realization of emptiness of self to accumulate nonconceptual wisdom. As
he devoted himself to these two types of accumulations, in the first
countless eons, he was able to ascend to the path of accumulation and
the path of unification, the first two bodhisattva bhumis in which one
is still an ordinary being. In the second countless eons, through the
accumulation of more merit and deeper purification of obscurations,
he gradually entered the path of seeing and the path of meditation,
passing through the first seven impure bodhisattva bhumis, from
the first bhumi of Extreme Joy all the way to the seventh bhumi. In
the third countless eons, he reached the final three pure bodhisattva
bhumis—the eighth, ninth, and tenth bhumis.
48
At the end of the tenth bhumi, he took birth in the Tushita Heaven as a
sage called the Dampa Tog Karpo, meaning White-Crown God. There,
he turned the wheel of dharma extensively for the celestial beings.
Then, in order to tame and liberate sentient beings in Jambudvipa,
on the fifteenth day of the Ashadha month, the sixth month in the
mid-summer of the Earth Sheep Year, from the Tushita Heaven, he
entered the womb of Queen Mayadevi in Kapilavastu. After ten full
months, he was born from the right side of Queen Mayadevi without
causing her any pain in the Lumbini Grove (now in Nepal). Before the
age of twenty-nine, he lived in Kapilavastu as a prince under the care
of his father, King Shuddhodana. At the age of twenty-nine, driven
by revulsion toward everything in samsara, he left the palace, shaved
his royal hair in front of a stupa,14 and renounced the lifestyle of a
householder.
1.6: Chojé expounding the dharma in Hawaii
On the bank of the Nairanjana River, he went through six years of
austerity, drinking only one drop of water and eating only one grain
of rice every day. This was to set an example for future practitioners
and let them understand that practicing the sacred dharma requires
perseverance and austerity. In the late spring, on the fifteenth day
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 49
of the fourth month, Saga Dawa, he attained perfect, complete, and
unsurpassable enlightenment at the place that is now known as the
Vajra Seat, Bodh Gaya in India. Forty-nine days later, at Deer Park in
Varanasi, he turned the first wheel of dharma in which he taught the
Four Noble Truths. Later, the Buddha went to Vulture Peak Mountain
in Rajagriha and turned the second wheel of dharma in which he
taught the absence of characteristics of all phenomena. Afterward,
in Vaishali and various other places, he performed the third turning
of the wheel of dharma on fully distinguishing the reality beyond a
trace of doubt. Finally, in order to purify sentient beings’ attachment
toward permanence, he manifested the act of entering parinirvana at
Kushinagar.
That was a brief history of the Buddha’s appearance in this world from
the perspective of Sutrayana.
The Buddha’s Prophecies
How did the Vajrayana teachings, the Secret Mantrayana, thrive in the
world?
When the Buddha was alive in this world, he taught the glorious
Guhyasamaja Tantraa
to King Indrabhuti in Oddiyana. In front of the
Shri Dhanyakataka Stupa in southern India, he taught Reciting the
Names of Manjushrib and the Kalachakra Tantra to an incredible gathering
of beings, including the Shambhala King Suchandra.c
In addition, he
gave various Vajrayana teachings of Secret Mantra to a few fortunate
disciples in the realms of gods, nagas, yakshas, gandharvas, and so
forth.
As he was passing into parinirvana, the Buddha prophesied, “Now,
I have extensively expounded the dharma of Sutrayana, the causal
vehicle, to many karmically fortunate beings, but I have rarely taught
a
sang du kyi gyu (gsang ’dus kyi rgyud).
b
jampal tsan jod (’jam dpal mtshan brjod).
c Dawa Zangpo (zla ba bzang po).
50
Vajrayana, the resultant vehicle. In the future, the teachings of Secret
Mantra will be widely spread.” In terms of who would turn the dharma
wheel of Secret Mantrayana, the Bhagavan foretold, “Twenty-eight
years after my passing, at the request of the Five Excellent Ones of
Sublime Nobility, the teachings of Secret Mantra will be widely taught.”
The Buddha also prophesied the place the teachings would be taught,
“The Five Excellent Ones of Sublime Nobility will spread the tantric
teachings at Mount Malaya in Sri Lanka.” He also prophesied that,
“Eight years after my passing, Orgyen Rinpoche Lake-Born Vajraa will
be born into this world and propagate Vajrayana even more extensively
than myself.” As predicted, Orgyen Padmasambhava was born into
our world in the milky lake of Oddiyana, which is identified by many
scholars today to be in present-day Pakistan.
In addition, the Sutra Requested by the Immaculate Goddessb also clearly
prophesied, “The dharma will spread from north to north and flourish
in the northern territory of the Land of Snows.” Some prophecy also
says that the dharma will flourish to the south in the southern territory.
Today, it is true that the Buddhadharma is essentially flourishing in
Sri Lanka and the Land of Tibet. In Sri Lanka, the doctrines of the
common vehicles flourish, while in the Land of Tibet, the Mahayana
teachings of Secret Mantra are widely spread.
Moreover, the Buddha also prophesied in the sutras the appearance
of many learned and accomplished masters. For example, he had
predicted that many great masters, such as Nagarjuna, Saraha, and
others, would appear in India. There are also prophecies that several
dharma kings would successively appear in the Snow Land of Tibet.
Not only that, Padmasambhava of the Old School Nyingmapa, Lama
Tsongkhapa of the New School of Gelugpa, Jetsun Milarepa of the
Kagyu, and lineage masters of the Sakya School, were all prophesied
in the Buddhist scriptures.
a Tsokye Dorje (mtsho skyes rdo rje).
b
lhamo drima med pé do¯ (lha mo dri ma med pa’i mdo).
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 51
Reflecting on all these prophecies, it can be realized that our root
teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni is truly extraordinary. Nowadays in this
world, there are many scientists who tirelessly engage in scientific research. They have conducted extensive research, are currently engaged
in research, and will continue to carry out more in the future. However,
how many of them could omnisciently understand all truths of the
world and teach the essential points of reality, like our root teacher
Buddha Shakyamuni?
In a word, according to the prophecy of the omniscient Buddha,
who possessed miraculous power and great compassion, the Secret
Mantrayana teachings will gradually become prevalent in many regions.
The Flourishing of the Great Perfection
Within the teachings of Secret Mantra, there are the three outer classes
of tantra and three inner classes of tantra, each of which has a rich
history of how it has been disseminated. However, since the others
are not the subject you have requested this time, I will not elaborate
on their history. Here, I will focus on how the Great Perfection, or
Dzogchen, has been brought into this world and flourished.
So how have the Great Perfection doctrines been spread? Initially, the
source of all buddhas, the primordial buddha, Dharmakaya Samantabhadra, demonstrated the perfect, complete, and unsurpassable enlightenment. Then, by the unobstructed power of his blessing, the
Three Supremes or Three Regents naturally emerged: the representative of enlightened body, the Vajrasattva statue that is made of one
hundred and one kinds of precious jewels in the size of a human at
the time when human lifespan is one hundred years; the representative of enlightened speech, the Sole Heir of the Doctrine Tantra,
a
four
fingerbreadths wide, written with gold on aquamarine paper; and the
representative of enlightened mind, a crystal vajra with the length of
a
tenpa bu chig gi gyu (bstan pa bu gcig gi rgyud).
52
the forearm of a human being at the time when human lifespan is one
hundred years. These three are called the Three Supremes or Three
Regents of Buddhism. In whichever realm these three appear, sentient
beings will enjoy peace and happiness free from suffering. Also, in
that realm, the Vajrayana doctrines of Secret Mantra will naturally
flourish, and many sentient beings will naturally accomplish spiritual
attainment with no great efforts required.
With the blessing of the Three Supremes, the twelve founding teachers
of Dzogchen had already appeared in different places or realms
in succession. When the Three Supremes naturally emerged in the
realm of Akanishtha, by the unobstructed power of his mind, Buddha
Samantabhadra transmitted the teachings of the Great Perfection
to the five buddhas of the five families, who are actually his own
self-manifestation, in the way of the direct mind transmission of
the buddhas. In the pure sambhogakaya field of Akanishtha, this
self-occurring tantra, Sole Heir of the Doctrine Tantra, descended into
the palm of Vajrasattva. Thereby, the doctrine of the Great Perfection
became prevalent in the realms of gods, humans, nagas, and so forth. In
the nirmanakaya realm, this self-occurring tantra has been existing in
the space above Bodh Gaya always proclaiming itself and will remain
in space there for many years to come. As long as it remains there, the
Great Perfection doctrine will not vanish and will continue to flourish
evermore. Anyone who practices it will achieve accomplishment and
attain extraordinary states of enlightenment. Other than this text, the
representatives of enlightened body and mind are present in different
worlds as well for the benefit of sentient beings there.
With the blessing of the Sole Heir of the Doctrine Tantra, the first human
Dzogchen master Garab Dorje was conceived without a father and
was born in Oddiyana, west of India. He arrived instantly in Akanistha
in the presence of Vajrasattva. From Vajrasattva, he received the
entire 6,400,000 stanzas of the Great Perfection and all the Dzogchen
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 53
empowerments, such as the royal vase empowerment,a as well as all the
practice guidance and pith instructions. Garab Dorje had memorized
all 6,400,000 stanzas by heart and compiled them into the doctrines of
the Great Perfection.
When Garab Dorje turned the wheel of dharma, there was a learned
Buddhist scholar in India called Manjushrimitra, or Jampal Shenyen
in Tibetan, who was perfectly versed in the ten sciences. He heard that
Garab Dorje had claimed that the karmic law of cause and effect did
not exist, so he decided to debate with the master. He found Garab
Dorje, but even when he had exhausted his storehouse of knowledge,
either that of the basic or advanced vehicle, he still could not defeat
Garab Dorje. Having lost the debate, he employed his miraculous
power in the wish to overcome the master but failed again. Realizing
that he was wrong and feeling ashamed, he begged Garab Dorje for
forgiveness and followed him as a disciple. From the master Garab
Dorje, he received the Great Perfection doctrine in its entirety.
When Garab Dorje’s enlightened activities in this world were completed, he entered parinirvana at Danatika River. Jampal Shenyen cried
out in despair and, expressing deep grief, lamented, “If you enter
parinirvana, the lamp light of the Buddhadharma will dwindle and die
out, and all sentient beings will be trapped in unbearable suffering.” At
that time, Garab Dorje’s body had already dissolved into rainbow light.
However, being moved by his disciple’s cry, in the clear sky in a mist
of rainbow light, Garab Dorje’s right hand and forearm reappeared in
which was a small golden casket containing the teaching of the Three
Vital Statements that Strike the Crucial Point.
b Garab Dorje handed this
last teaching to Jampal Shenyen. Later, Jampal Shenyen compiled the
6,400,000 stanzas received from Garab Dorje into three categories: the
outer category of mind, the inner category of space, and the secret
category of pith instructions.
a gyal thab chi lüg (rgyal thabs spyi blug).
b
tsig sum ned deg (tshig gsum gnad brdeg); Garab Dorje.
54
Afterward, Jampal Shenyen turned the wheel of dharma for humans
and non-human spirits in the great Sosaling charnel ground. At that
time, there was a master named Shri Singha in a place called Auspicious
Gate.15 He had attained all eight common spiritual accomplishments
and was a great erudite who was versed in the eighteen sciences. Once,
Avalokiteshvara appeared and prophesied to him, “Noble son, your
root guru in many lifetimes now lives at Sosaling charnel ground in
India. Go and find him.” Then, through his miraculous power, Shri
Singha flew in space about a foot high above the ground and reached
Sosaling in India in only seven days. He met Jampal Shenyen, followed
him, and received all his teachings without exception.
Finally, Jampal Shenyen passed into parinirvana by transforming his
body into a beam of rainbow light and disappeared. Seeing this,
Shri Singha wept in distress and prayed to his teacher. Then, from
the sky descended Jampal Shenyen’s last instruction, Six Meditative
Experiences.
a
Just by chanting it, Shri Singha’s mind became nondual
with the wisdom of his guru.
Afterward, Shri Singha returned to his motherland China, and went
to Mount Wutai to enter into meditative absorption in the Siljin or
Cool Grove charnel ground. At that time, in eastern India, there were
two great panditas, Jnanasutra and Vimalamitra, who had been close
dharma friends, sharing the same ideals and following the same path
for five hundred lifetimes. One day, when they were entertaining
themselves in a garden, Vajrasattva descended from the sky and
prophesied to them, “Noble sons, both of you have been panditas for
five hundred lifetimes, but still have not yet attained buddhahood.
If you want to reach buddhahood in this very life, you should go to
the Cool Grove charnel ground in China.” Impetuous yet courageous,
Vimalamitra immediately returned home, put on his dharma robes,
packed his begging bowl, and set out for China. In nine years, he
a gom nyam drug pa (sgom nyams drug pa); part of the Vima Nyingtig; Manjushrimitra or Jampal
Shenyen.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 55
stayed to receive empowerments, guidance, and pith instructions from
Shri Singha. Having followed his teacher for nine years and received
the teaching fully, he went back to India. Only then did Jnanasutra
travel to find Shri Singha in China, where he spent twenty-one years
together with the master, receiving even more superior empowerments,
guidance, and pith instructions than Vimalamitra did.
1.7: Chojé introducing the history of the Great Perfection
When Shri Singha lived in the Cool Grove charnel ground in China,
Padmasambhava and the great translator Vairotsana also came to
rely on him and received the Great Perfection teachings from him.
At the time when Shri Singha passed into parinirvana, he gave his
last instruction, Nailing Down the Seven Points,
a
to Jnanasutra, through
which the wisdom minds of Jnanasutra and Shri Singha became
nondual. Later, when Jnanasutra passed into parinirvana, his body
transformed into a mass of light from which his final teaching, the
Four Modes of Placement,
b descended to Vimalamitra.
All the above-mentioned great human masters vanished into light and
disappeared at their parinirvana except two of them. One is Orgyen
a
zer bu dun pa (gzer bu bdun pa); included in the Vima Nyingtig; Shri Singha.
b
zhag tab zhi pa (bzhag thabs bzhi pa); Jnanasutra.
56
Rinpoche, Padmasambhava. He has never entered parinirvana but
lives as a king of rakshasas in Chamaradvipa, the Ngayab continent.
The other is Vimalamitra. He remains at Mount Wutai in China without
abandoning his fleshly body and manifests a real emanation in the
Land of Tibet once every one hundred years. Meanwhile, Vimalamitra
keeps sending emanations to this world unceasingly. In 1987, along
with tens of thousands of Tibetans, I made a pilgrimage to Mount
Wutai and paid homage to Vimalamitra. During our stay, some people
saw Vimalamitra and Manjushri in the sky. There were also people
who saw lions, rainbows, magnificent images of people and birds, or
many other incredibly auspicious signs. Even today, people who make
a pilgrimage to Mount Wutai continue to see such kinds of auspicious
signs.
In a later time Vimalamitra emanated an illusory body from his
primordial wisdom in front of Chetsun Senge Wangchuk in Tibet and
bestowed upon him his entire empowerments, guidance, and pith
instructions. Once when Chetsun Senge Wangchuk was making a
tsok offering among one hundred thousand dakinis, his physical body
dissolved into a light sphere. Then, all the dakinis began to pray to him,
and following that, he bestowed upon them the Great Chetsun’s Heart
Essence of Chetsuna
in three sections and then passed into parinirvana.
Thus far, great Dzogchen masters appeared in the world one after
another, and along with that, there also emerged a great number of
practitioners who followed them to practice Dzogchen and attained
rainbow body. For example, it is well known that one hundred thousand practitioners accomplished rainbow body in the same period of
time at the Kathok Monastery in Kham. Even to this day, practitioners
who accomplish the inconceivable rainbow body, a state of accomplishment where the body transforms into rainbow or dissolves into
light, are emerging constantly from time to time.
a
chetsun nyingtig (lce btsun snying thig); Chetsun Senge Wangchuk.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 57
For instance, there was an old layman from Yidlong in Dege named
Sogyal (Sonam Namgyal), who had accomplished the rainbow body
through practicing the Great Perfection. I guess most of you know his
story, right? His Holiness Dudjom Rinpoche’s The Nyingma School of
Tibetan Buddhism, Its Fundamentals and History, mentions him. The place
where my Buddhist institute is located today is a mountain hermitage
where Kyabjé Dudjom Rinpoche’s predecessor, Dudjom Lingpa, and
his disciples resided most of the time. It was in this place, thirteen
disciples of Dudjom Lingpa accomplished rainbow bodies at the same
time.
1.8: Audience putting their palms together reverently
In monasteries across the Land of
Tibet, there have been many practitioners who achieved rainbow
body or who at least at the time
of their death shrank their bodies
to a small size, and this type of
miracle continues to happen to
the present day. In our Dzogchen
lineage, there were and still are so
many disciples who demonstrate
auspicious signs of accomplishment upon death, such as body shrinking or dissolving into light. In
short, about sixty percent of Dzogchen practitioners have achieved
apparent signs of spiritual attainment through practicing the Great
Perfection.
I have touched briefly on the history of the Dzogchen lineage to
strengthen your faith in the Great Perfection. A good criterion to
examine whether a doctrine is genuine or not is to check if it leads
to spiritual attainment or at least some experience. Up until today,
accomplished practitioners keep emerging in the Nyingma School,
the lineage of vidyadharas, and this is the most powerful evidence to
show that the Great Perfection is a genuine and pure practice.
58
The Extraordinary Attributes of the Great Perfection
Then, you may ask, “So, in what approach can we learn the teachings
of the Great Perfection?”
The answer is if you want to extensively study the Great Perfection,
you can refer to the eleven topics of Dzogchen. To summarize their
key points, the core is the practice of trekchö, which reveals the
view of primordial purity, and the practice of tögal, which brings the
realization of spontaneous presence.
The practice of trekchö refers to the actual practice to ascertain the view
that all phenomena are empty in nature. The essential pith instructions
that fall into the category of trekchö are practiced in their own forms
by all schools, such as Sakya, Nyingma, Kagyu, Gelug, and so forth.
For example, the Supreme Medicinal Nectara by Lama Tsongkhapa
of the Sarma tradition is identical to the fundamental teachings of
the Nyingma’s Great Perfection from its beginning to the end. Not
only that, many practitioners in the lineage of Tsongkhapa, such as
Changkya Rolpe Dorje, have also accomplished spiritual attainment
by practicing the Great Perfection.
Comparatively, the practice of tögal is a unique practice that no other
school has. The Great Perfection has four types of uncommon teachings.
Jampal Shenyen divided the 6,400,000 stanzas of Dzogchen into three
classes: the outer category of mind, the inner category of space, and
the secret category of pith instructions. Shri Singha further classified
the secret category of pith instruction into four cycles: outer, inner,
secret, and quintessential secret. Except for the innermost Nyingtig
teachings, none of the other Great Perfection doctrines teaches the
practice of tögal.
To put it simply, in terms of actual practice, trekchö and tögal are the two
core training paths in the Great Perfection, which are clearly taught in
a
zhu lan dudtsi man chog (zhus lan bdud rtsi sman mchog); Tsongkhapa.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 59
the Nyingtig Yabzhi.
a
Initially, the Nyingtig teachings were brought into
this world and transmitted in the Land of Tibet by Padmasambhava
and Vimalamitra. These are known as Pema Nyingtigb or Khandro
Nyingtigc and Vima Nyingtig,
d
respectively. Because they are the initial
Nyingtig teachings propagated in Tibet, these two are called mother
Nyingtig. Afterward, Omniscient Longchenpa composed the Lama
Yangtig,
e a commentary and offspring of the Vima Nyingtig, Khandro
Yangtig,
f a commentary and offspring of the Khandro Nyingtig, as well
as a condensation of the important pith instructions of the two mother
Nyingtig texts known as Zabmo Yangtig, Profound Quintessence.
g Then,
the two mother Nyingtig and their two commentaries known as the
child Nyingtig are collectively called Nyingtig Yabzhi, Four Sections of the
Heart Essence.
All training techniques in Buddhism can be acquired through two
ways of transmission: explanatory transmission and oral transmission.
Oral transmission means to transmit teachings that are classified as the
secret cycle, or more advanced teachings, to only a small number of
fortunate disciples. The explanatory transmission refers to the case in
which, when the attendees are all suitable dharma vessels, the teaching
can be given to a large audience.
In terms of the Dzogchen teachings, before the omniscient Longchen
Rabjam, great masters only transmitted the Great Perfection to a few
individuals person-to-person rather than to a larger audience. Since
the time of Longchen Rabjam, more people have become suitable
vessels for Dzogchen. Therefore, if the master is an accomplished one
and all the disciples are qualified, the master can impart Dzogchen
teachings to hundreds of thousands of disciples at once. Nowadays,
a nyingtig yab zhi (snying thig ya bzhi); Longchen Rabjam; Four Sections of the Heart Essence.
b padma nyingtig (pad ma snying thig); Padmasambhava; Heart Essence of Pema.
c
khandro nyingtig (mkha’ ’gro snying thig); Padmasambhava; Heart Essence of the Dakini.
d vima nyingtig (bi ma snying thig); Vimalamitra; Heart Essence of Vimalamitra.
e
lama yangtig (bla ma yang tig); Longchen Rabjam; Quintessence of the Guru.
f
khandro yangtig (mkha’ ’gro yang tig); Longchen Rabjam; Quintessence of the Dakini.
g
zabmo yangtig (zab mo yang tig); Longchen Rabjam; Profound Quintessence.
60
in the Land of Tibet, many realized lamas give teachings to large
audiences. Likewise, in India and other places, Dudjom Rinpoche,
Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, Penor Rinpoche, and many other great
masters have bestowed empowerments ofRinchen Terdzoda andNyingtig
Yabzhi to large gatherings of people in various occasions.
Some people may question, “Why do they transmit so publicly?” This
is because there were only very few qualified disciples in the past,
but now there are a great number of people who are suitable dharma
vessels for receiving these profound teachings.
You may start to have some misgivings, “According to the Buddha’s
teaching, before the appearance of Buddha Maitreya, as time passes,
the world systems and time degenerate to become more chaotic, the
karma and fortune of sentient beings decline rather than improve.
Why is the noble dharma that is suitable for beings becoming more
sublime?”
According to the view of the general tantras, as afflictive emotions
of sentient beings become stronger, the dharma must become more
profound to resolve these afflictions. In other words, when the dharma
gets more profound, it indicates that the afflictive emotions of sentient
beings are becoming stronger. When sentient beings are carried away
by distractions unceasingly, only dharma that strikes the point will
be effective. Generally speaking, kriya tantra, or action tantra, is the
lowest among all tantras, and it is most popular when the lifespan of
humans is limitless. Then, when the lifespan of humans decreases to
80,000 years, charya tantra, or conduct tantra, blossoms vigorously.
When humans’ lifespan shrinks to 30,000 years, yoga tantra is most
prevalent. Afterward, when the five aspects of degeneration and strife
become rampant, the highest yoga tantra flourishes.
The more degenerate the time is, the more profound the tantra there is
to fit the need of sentient beings. Finally, when human lifespan lessens
a
rin chen gter mdzod.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 61
to only ten years, the Great Perfection will become more popular than
ever. At that time, a dakini named Dakini Paldzin will teach the Great
Perfection, and anyone who sees, hears, remembers, or comes into
contact with this teaching will be liberated. Meanwhile, any other
doctrines would become less and less effective as the time degenerates.
As Ju Mipham Rinpoche said, “When the world is enveloped in the
darkness of degeneration and decline, the enlightened activities of
Padmasambhava will become as brilliant as the moon.”
Also, according to the Sutrayana teaching, the Buddhadharma will
go through four stages of duration: the period of fruition, the period
of accomplishment, the period of transmission, and the period of
symbolic representation. The first two periods have already come and
gone. Now, we are in the middle of the period of transmission, during
which time besides teaching and listening to the dharma, there is
barely any other form of practice more profound in the Sutrayana
tradition. Generally speaking, the blessing of sutras keeps declining.
This is true if it is observed with an unbiased view. In the past, Guru
Rinpoche and the great pandita Vimalamitra traveled across the entire
land of India and then came to the Land of Tibet, but even so, the
Great Perfection was unable to flourish widely at that time. But now,
many Tibetan lamas give empowerments and teachings abroad. Take
the example of America, the most powerful nation in the world, the
Great Perfection has become prevalent in this land. This is a sign that
the blessing of this practice has become more and more powerful.
If you observe people here today, you can also realize the blessing
of Dzogchen. Based on your attitude and mentality, I could infer
that you must have devotion to the Buddhadharma in general and
special faith in Tibetan Buddhism. In particular, you must have vivid
conviction and interest in the Great Perfection. This is already an
apparent sign that you can receive the blessing of the Great Perfection
in your mind streams. So obviously, you are suitable dharma vessels of
the Great Perfection. Do you agree with me? In the tiny Snow Land of
62
Tibet, there is little knowledge about modern science and few erudite
scholars of worldly knowledge. However, due to the prevalence of the
profound Great Perfection that carries great blessing, a great number
of Tibetan lamas have been spreading the dharma and especially the
Great Perfection in various countries across the world. So, just from this
point, you can see that the Mahayana teachings, the Great Perfection
in particular, are of inconceivable blessing and merit.
1.9: Chojé and Khenpo Namdrol
Again, some of you may wonder, “In the past, the yogis of the Great
Perfection all flew to the land of the vidyadharas without leaving their
physical bodies behind. They accomplished rainbow bodies and now
dwell in pure lands. But why did the Great Perfection masters of the
present day, such as Dudjom Rinpoche and Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche,
leave their physical bodies behind without transforming them into
light?”
In fact, there are two reasons to explain why their bodies did not
transform completely into rainbow light. One important reason is that
they could have transformed their bodies into rainbow light, but they
chose to leave their bodies in the world as an object of homage for
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 63
fortunate beings to generate faith. In other words, if their entire body
could most benefit sentient beings, they would leave their entire body
in this world; if leaving only hair and nails would most benefit sentient
beings, they would dissolve into rainbow light except for their hair
and nails. Nowadays, some lamas have left their nails and hair upon
nirvana, and some have left their entire bodies. Whatever the case, you
should understand they chose to do so because their remains would
evoke beings’ faith and be an object of homage, which beings can
make prostration to and circumambulate around. As a result, those
beings would avoid falling into the lower realms. So, there is great
significance for them to do so.
Another reason is that if a lama has many disciples who have grave
negative karma or keep impure samaya, the lama would be contaminated to the point that the body could not completely dissolve into
rainbow light. This could happen too.
You may ask, “What is the difference between intentionally leaving the
body in this world and not being able to dissolve the body into rainbow
light?” Take Dudjom Rinpoche and Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche as
examples. Dudjom Rinpoche was Padmasambhava himself appearing
in this world in the form of a human being. Even if the entire world
had been full of samaya breakers, they could not hinder his body
from dissolving into rainbow light. Similarly, Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche
was the emanation of King Trisong Detsen, so even if all his disciples
and all sentient beings in the whole world had broken their samaya,
they could not obstruct a great master like him from dissolving into
rainbow light. As you can see, the remains of these two great masters
were left and preserved only to serve as objects of worship, offerings,
and circumambulation for you and other devotees.
However, for ordinary practitioners or beginners like us, in order to
accomplish the rainbow body through practicing and realizing the
Great Perfection, we must scrutinize carefully when choosing disciples.
Otherwise, since the ordinary body is in itself the aggregate of impurity
64
and the source of suffering, if disciples violate samaya, it is bound to
obstruct us from achieving the rainbow body. As a result, the physical
body would have to remain. For every one of you present, I am unable
to examine your mind streams, but for me, it is certain that if any of
my disciples violate samaya, I would be affected and lose the chance
to attain the rainbow body.
Above is a brief introduction to the attributes of the Great Perfection.
The Blessing of the Great Perfection
Just by hearing teachings on the Great Perfection, even if you do not
practice diligently, buddhahood will be attained in no more than seven
lifetimes. Once receiving empowerment and instruction, as long as
wrong views toward your lama, including disparagement and also
withdrawing your faith, do not occur, then liberation will certainly
occur in the bardo just after this life.
On the basis of receiving Dzogchen empowerment and instruction,
if a practitioner understands the meaning and applies that through
earnest practice, if faith is strong, then buddhahood can be realized
within six months. If faith is middling, buddhahood will occur within
seven years, and even if faith is weak, buddhahood will be attained in
no less than twelve years.
After receiving empowerment and instruction, if you do not have the
chance to practice, as long as pure samaya is maintained and your
body always touches a text of the Great Perfection, liberation will come
about soon. If a dying sentient being hears the teachings of the Great
Perfection, then liberation will come to pass in not too long of a time
thereafter. Even if a text of the Great Perfection is kept close to your
pillow, and prostrations, circumambulation, or butter lamp offerings
are presented to this text, then liberation will not be far away.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 65
1.10: Chojé looking aside gently
66
Why is the Great Perfection the summit of all vehicles? The Great
Perfection transcends all eight vehicles because anyone who sees, hears,
remembers, or touches a text on this teaching will swiftly achieve
buddhahood. This is the reason the Great Perfection is called liberation
upon hearing and contact. This is so inconceivable that from now on,
as long as we do not hold wrong views toward the teaching or the
teacher and never slander them, buddhahood will soon be reached
and samsara that is full of suffering and the causes of suffering will
have been traversed!
At that time, both body and mind will be free from all forms of suffering.
Wouldn’t you like it? (Laughs)
The Foundation of Dharma Practice
On the morning of June 19th, His Holiness gave the empowerment of his own
terma, the cycle of Peaceful Manjushri, to the audience gathered in the temple,
including people affiliated with the temple and those from other places. Before
the empowerment, His Holiness addressed them with the following words:
Before receiving the empowerment, you should reflect like this, “In
order to benefit all sentient beings throughout the reach of space, I
will listen carefully and spread this practice in the future.”
Here, I give you permission to translate this teaching into any language
and spread and propagate it in every country across the world by any
means.
In fact, spreading the dharma is the duty-bound responsibility for
every one of you. Take Khenpo Namdrol as an example. He not only
teaches the dharma extensively to the Tibetan monastics in India but
also tries to promote this practice in places like Taiwan and Hong Kong.
His activities of disseminating the dharma and benefiting sentient
beings are deep and vast. I believe you must also have such ability,
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 67
and I hope you can propagate this practice on a large scale and in a
profound way.
The main training of Mahayana Buddhism is to cultivate the vast,
altruistic intention to help all sentient beings. So, please do not think
it is not your business to carry forward this teaching. Nobody should
neglect this sacred mission. In terms of shouldering this mission,
Khenpo Sodargye has also set a good example for you. He has been
disseminating this teaching to a great number of lay practitioners
and monastics in the mainland of China. Similarly, you should all
remember to contribute your effort to spread this practice on various
occasions.
The empowerment was finished in the morning, and following that, Jigme
Phuntsok Rinpoche gave two lectures on Placing Buddhahood within Reach,
a
the
practice manual of the Peaceful Manjushri. One was in the afternoon and the
other the next day. The first lecture covered the part from the beginning stanza
to generating bodhicitta. I did not record the teaching completely and just
excerpted a part to share with you.
Kyabjé Yidzhin Norbu said:
As mentioned earlier, when listening to this teaching, you should
think, “I am here to listen to this exquisitely profound teaching and
practice its meaning for the purpose of placing all sentient beings
throughout the reach of space in buddhahood.” Please cultivate this
intention before receiving the teaching.
The teaching you are going to receive is Placing Buddhahood within Reach,
which provides step-by-step instructions for practicing the Peaceful
Manjushri. If you want to actually follow this path, there are two kinds
of instructions: the overall explanation of the stages of the path and
the specific pith instructions for actual practice. As for the first, I have
a
sangye lag chang (sangs rgyas lag ’chang).
68
elaborated on all the stages in the text entitled Heart Essence Bindu
of the Heart.
a The second, the pith instructions of the actual practice,
are elucidated in the practice manual Placing Buddhahood within Reach.
Speaking of these two texts, Heart Essence Bindu of the Heart follows
the extensive pandita approach, while Placing Buddhahood within Reach
follows the profound kusali approach.
In terms of actual practice, you can follow the guidance of either of
these two texts, because both of them provide a complete and accurate
path to perfect buddhahood. This time, I am going to focus on Placing
Buddhahood within Reach, and before that, I would like to supplement
it with some teachings from the Heart Essence Bindu of the Heart.
Decreased Desire and Contentment
A prerequisite for practicing pure dharma is to have less desire and
to be content. Specifically, to have less desire means to never think, “If
only I could acquire what he (or she) has” when seeing someone who
possesses abundant wealth, distinguished power and influence, and
good reputation. Contentment is to always be satisfied with a sense of
contentment, thinking, “This is good enough,” regardless of whether
you enjoy nice food and drink or not. A content person will never
insatiably engage in meaningless mundane projects for a pursuit of
better material enjoyments.
If you are a person with less desire and contentment, you will not cling
to the glory, reputation, and achievements of this life. Otherwise, you
will blindly hold on to this world and lose the chance to practice pure
dharma. No matter how much pleasurable enjoyment you experience,
it only increases your desire and will never satisfy you. For instance,
when somebody gets a pound of gold, he would want two pounds;
when one becomes the owner of a region, he would wish to own two;
when a person is elected as the leader of one country, he would want
a nying tam nying gi tiglé (snying gtam snying gi thig le); Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 69
to be the sovereign of two countries. The pit of desire can never be
filled. Therefore, we must learn to decrease desire.
No matter how much energy you spend on worldly pursuit, even if
you devote your entire life, there will never be an end to this. For the
majority of people throughout their life, they chase after happiness,
wealth, and fame. For that goal, they have to put in limitless effort
every day, but the reward is usually insignificant, and suddenly they
find that their life has reached its end. Considering this, it is more than
wise to give up all kinds of worldly engagements and get involved
only in accomplishing everlasting peace and happiness.
Think about happiness, wealth, or fame in this world. Aren’t they
like what happens in a dream? Suppose we dream of doing business.
Sometimes we are happy regarding a profit, and sometimes we are
depressed about a loss. But this is just a dream, and we have never
even done any business in reality. How then can there be profit or
loss? Similarly, happiness, possessions, and reputation in this world do
not truly exist and are not different from the appearances in a dream.
Think about your own life from birth till now. Some of you have
had a wonderful life so far, some have suffered tremendously, while
others have mixed feelings about their life. However, all of these are no
different from the dream of last night. Besides memories, the pleasures
and misfortunes that once happened will no longer be experienced.
Some people may argue, “Although what happened is gone, the
happiness or suffering I’m experiencing is real for me.” In fact, these
emotions are exactly the same as what happened in last night’s dream!
No matter whether you enjoy happiness and feel joyful or are distressed
by misfortune in the dream, when you wake up the next morning,
nothing really happened. Similarly, the happiness and suffering you
experience today, however vivid they may be, will not exist by the next
dawn. Your current emotions are as insubstantial as a dream.
70
In the same way, the emotions of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow
are no different from those in the dreams of tomorrow and the day
after tomorrow. They are not everlasting or solid. Since the experiences
of suffering and happiness have never truly existed and are based on
delusion, there is no reason to be attached to them.
Whoever you are, once you decide to practice genuine dharma, you
need to train yourself to be content, desire less, and maintain the
mindset, “As long as I don’t feel cold or hungry, all is good.” Otherwise,
if you spend lots of energy on worldly things, you will never be able
to practice the sacred dharma. So, be satisfied as long as you have
enough food and clothes. Even if you become the king of the world,
besides clothes, food, transportation, and living environment that are
needed for daily use, you would never be able to enjoy everything you
possess. Therefore, too much wealth, enjoyment, fame, and glory will
not do you any good.
In terms of spiritual practice, the best case is to focus only on the
practice of dharma and never get involved in worldly and trivial things.
One who can accomplish that is considered as a supreme practitioner.
If you cannot totally give up worldly pursuit and you practice the
dharma but also seek the glory and wealth of this life, you can only be
counted as a middling practitioner. If you eagerly chase after happiness
and glory of this life yet have some interest in the dharma, you are an
inferior practitioner. In the worst case, if you only desire for the peace
and wealth of this life but have no wish to practice the dharma at all,
you will never become a practitioner or a Buddhist.
Therefore, please examine your own mind according to what I said.
If you were not a practitioner at all in the past, you need to start now
to first become an inferior practitioner at least. If you were an inferior
practitioner, you should do everything possible to reach the level of a
middling one. If you were a middling practitioner, then stretch a little
bit more and see if you can turn into a supreme practitioner who has
no desire in this life at all.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 71
Relying on a Teacher
For anyone who genuinely wants to follow the spiritual path to
enlightenment, initially, it is critical to have little desire and be content.
With those qualities as the basis, you need to rely on a qualified teacher.
Why? Because you need to follow the instruction of a teacher to get
rid of all your faults that go against the dharma and cultivate every
potential quality that you do not have in your mind.
What are the criteria for a qualified teacher whom you can rely on?
According to Buddhist terminology, a teacher must possess certain
uncommon characteristics that distinguish him or her from ordinary
people. You should follow a teacher who meets the required qualifications and has abundant merit and virtue. The most basic qualification
is that he or she must possess loving kindness, the wish for all sentient
beings to have peace and happiness, and compassion, the wish for
all sentient beings to be free from suffering. Loving kindness and
compassion are the most fundamental qualities a teacher should have,
and on that basis, the teacher must also be able to explain the meaning
of the dharma. Only when all these criteria are met can a person be
called a qualified teacher.
Then, what are the ways for a disciple to rely on a teacher? The supreme
way is to practice the dharma received from the teacher; the middling
way is to wholeheartedly attend to the teacher so he or she is pleased;
the inferior way is to make material offerings to the teacher to please
him or her and to repay his or her kindness. These are the three ways of
pleasing the teacher that a student must do when following a teacher.
As a disciple, you should request and receive teachings from the teacher.
The best teachings are the sutras directly taught by the Buddha and
shastras that interpret the intended meaning of the sutras, composed
either by the great Indian masters, such as the Two Supreme Ones16
and Six Ornaments,17 or by Tibetan accomplished masters and scholars,
72
such as those of the eight lineages of attainment in the Land of Snows. It
is important that you receive these teachings directly from the teacher.
Of course, the spiritual path is not just about receiving teachings from
the teacher. It is not right if you just listen to a teaching before the
dharma throne and then put it aside. You need to memorize all the
words and their meaning by heart. If you are unable to grasp all the
teachings, you should at least master the one that you are going to
practice. Take the profound Peaceful Manjushri, Placing Buddhahood
within Reach. After listening to the explanation of the entire text from
the teacher, you must remove any doubt or confusion about the words
and their meaning through deep reflection. If you merely read it by
yourself in an absent-minded manner and try to discern the meaning
through your dualistic mind, you will never understand the deeper
meaning.
This is especially the case for Vajrayana practices. Even if you know the
words inside out, you will not comprehend the secret meaning behind
the words nor the pith instructions for practicing because these are
not explicitly written in the texts and can only be revealed by qualified
teachers. Considering this, make sure you rely on a qualified teacher.
In general, due to different elements, capacities, inclinations, intentions,
and afflictive emotions of the recipients, different ways to teach the
dharma have to be adopted. If only one way of teaching is employed,
it would be like prescribing the same medicine to all patients, in
which case most patients would not be cured, and worse still, it is
likely to cause more suffering to them. However, Placing Buddhahood
within Reach is not the usual case, in that whoever practices this
manual wholeheartedly will benefit immensely. In Tibetan medicine,
myrobalan18 is effective to dispel all four hundred four kinds of diseases.
When making a prescription, if the doctor uses myrobalan as the main
ingredient and supplements it with various other medicines according
to the health situation of the individual patient, the prescription may
produce instant results. In the same way, Placing Buddhahood within
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 73
Reach is as universally effective as myrobalan. If a teacher imparts it to
the disciples, he or she should base the teaching on this practice manual
and also add some pith instructions to supplement this. Otherwise,
merely relying on one single teaching, it would be hard to place
everyone in the state of buddhahood.
Magic Power
At noon on June 19th, Kyabjé Yidzhin Norbu sat on the lawn close to the shrine
room enjoying the beautiful scenery. Amazingly, a group of visitors with brown
hair and pale eyes showed up. Meanwhile, another group of visitors with
golden hair and blue eyes came from another direction. The first group had
about thirty people, and they came from North America. The second group had
about seventy people and were from South America. Immediately attracted by
Rinpoche’s tranquil and gentle manner, as well as his distinguished charisma,
they all came close and sat down around him with respect. Delightedly, His
Holiness said to them, “What an auspicious occasion! You brown-haired people
from North America, you golden-haired people from South America, and this
black-haired old Asian man could gather together in this way.” Following that,
he gave a spontaneous talk about the value of human life. Finally, all these one
hundred people took refuge in the Three Jewels.
In the afternoon, the active volcano known as Kilauea in the southern part
of this island of Hawaii began erupting. Some local people were in a panic
and came to His Holiness for blessings. He said to the people around him,
“More than a thousand years ago, a conflagration in Mount Hepori at Samye
in central Tibet was extinguished by Nanam Dorje Dudjom, the Indestructible
Subduer of Mara, through his clairvoyance. Now, since I have the name as being
the reincarnation of Dorje Dudjom, may I be able to put this fire out!” After
saying this, His Holiness took out his phurba and chanted a secret mantra while
74
abiding in a meditative state. Soon afterward, we were told that the volcano
became quiet.
On the second day, some geologists purposely called on Rinpoche and expressed their gratitude. They praised him from the depth of their hearts, saying,
“The might of Tibetan Buddhism and your blessings are truly unbelievable!”
The resident lama at Nechung Dorje Drayang Ling, Lobzang Dhonden, told me
that this story was featured in the local news.
Another Manifestation of Realization
1.11: Chojé conversing warmly with everyone
One time, His Holiness privately told
me, “Our tour to the West this time
would be different from our previous
dharma trips. When we visited those
sacred sites in the Lands of Tibet, India, Nepal, and Bhutan, I would reveal
termas from time to time; and during
our pilgrimage to Mount Wutai in the
Han regions, I also had some pure visions and special meditative experiences
in which some teachings spontaneously
welled up in my mind. However, since
these few western countries have a short
history of several hundred years and
the Buddha and Guru Rinpoche did not
come to visit here, there would be no
terma for me to reveal. Plus, western people prefer to be rational and value
realism. They may not give credence to miraculous experiences. So, I will focus
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 75
on giving empowerments and teachings this time, and you do not need to be
prepared for recording or taking notes all the time as you did before.”
Just as he said, throughout the tour, His Holiness primarily gave empowerments and teachings. He did not display supernatural powers publicly, nor did
he reveal any earth or mind terma. He simply interacted with westerners as a
dharma practitioner and a scholar of Tibetan Buddhism.
Even though he seldom demonstrated any miraculous behavior, most of those
who saw his sublime body and heard his voice teaching the dharma underwent
some small or even dramatic transformation in their life. This is probably due
to the power of his profound aspiration of being a great accomplished master.
Obviously, His Holiness became very popular among western people. So, we
can see that just through ordinary behavior and simple words, great masters
with solid practice and genuine realization can greatly influence sentient beings
and transform their minds. To ordinary people, it is unimaginable, but in reality,
it is a reflection of his inner realization.
76
The Connection with the Nechung Protector
One day at Nechung Dorje Drayang Ling, at the request of disciples living there,
His Holiness composed a short prayer to the Nechung protector:
The natural manifestation of the mirror-like primordial wisdom,
Dharma protector, King Nechung, to you and your assemblies,
I supplicate and make offerings. May you be delighted
And may whatever activities entrusted to you be accomplished
swiftly without hindrance.
In order to satisfy the request of disciples from Nechung Dorje Drayang
Ling located on a beautiful island, represented by Lama Lobzang Dhonden,
Ngawang Lodrö Tsungmé joyfully wrote this down. May it be virtuous!
June 19th, 1993
I wrote down these words in Tibetan, and the original copy has been kept in
the dharma protector’s shrine ever since then.
1.12: The prayer to the Nechung protector transcribed by Khenpo
Sodargye
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 77
On the morning of June 20th, Chojé bestowed the empowerment for the
concise practice of Tendrel Nyesel,
a a terma revealed by Terton Lerab Lingpa.
Before the empowerment, His Holiness touched on his connection with the
Nechung protector.
Let me say a few words about the Nechung protector by referring to
the biography of the great terton Lerab Lingpa, Nyala Sogyal.
Nyala Sogyal was the body emanation of the mantra adept Dorje
Dudjom, the head of many accomplished mantrikas who practiced
Vajrakilaya in the Land of Snows, the speech emanation of Dakini
Vajravarahi, and the mind emanation of Guru Rinpoche Padmasambhava. As an incredible terton, he was able to fly in the sky like a
bird, swim in the water like a fish, pass through rocks without any
obstacles, read the mind of others without obstruction, and dispel all
kinds of degeneration and misfortune of the Land of Snows through
his mighty power. Specifically, he was the extraordinary teacher of His
Holiness the thirteenth Gyalwa Rinpoche Thubten Gyatso.
The great terton could talk to the Nechung dharma protector, Dorje
Drakden, like having conversations with human friends. They gave
prophecies to each other and discussed what activity should be adopted
or abandoned. They were, and are, closely associated. Now, let me
briefly introduce the origin of their relationship.
Two years ago, during my visit to Dharamsala in northern India, the
monk who was the medium of the Nechung protector came to meet
me. As we talked about his samaya commitment to Terton Sogyal, he
clearly recollected scenes with the great terton, then tears gushed from
his eyes, and overjoyed, his body kept shivering.
Whether toward the previous Nyala Sogyal or to me as his reincarnation, the Nechung protector has always been extremely kind and
helpful. In the past, Nyala Sogyal was known as a senior Secret Mantra
a
rten ’brel nyes sel.
78
practitioner and a great master of Nyingma, enjoying high prestige in
the area of Kham. However, when he first came to U Tsang, central
Tibet, he was just an unknown ordinary Secret Mantra practitioner.
One day, when the terton visited a marketplace in Lhasa, the Nechung
protector suddenly appeared with a khata in his hands. Before a big
crowd, he addressed the terton as Padmasambhava, offered the khata
and prostrated to him with veneration. From then on, Terton Nyala
Sogyal gained vast respect and support from the people in central
Tibet. It was also through the effort of the Nechung protector that
Nyala Sogyal was introduced to Gyalwa Rinpoche Thubten Gyatso,
who then received teachings from him and also gave teachings to him.
Afterward, it was again the Nechung protector who first assisted the
terton to expand his enlightened activities.
Similarly, when I offered the Vajrakilaya Gurkhukmaa
empowerment
in Dharamsala, the Nechung protector once again descended. He
sincerely prostrated to me and then offered me a buddha statue, a
sutra, and a stupa. Afterward, he related our meetings in the previous
life, prophesied some things in the future, and gave various praises to
me. Because of that, I was also venerated and supported by Tibetans
living in that area. Due to his assistance, my activities have always been
vast and prosperous without any obstacles or unfavorable conditions.
Now, as I recall all of this, I feel grateful to the Nechung protector since
he has been extremely kind and helpful to me.
Before we set off on this tour, one day in the Land of Snows, a clear
thought crossed my mind, “It is said that there is a Nechung dharma
center in the United States. If I could visit it, that would be amazing,
but it seems it is not in the plan. What a pity! I will not be able to make
it this time.” However, shortly afterward, I was told that there was a
dharma center of the Nechung protector on the island of Hawaii in
the middle of the Pacific Ocean, and it had been added to our trip.
Hearing that, my heart was filled with joy.19
a phur pa mgur khug ma.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 79
1.13: Statue of the Nechung protector enshrined in Nechung Temple, Hawaii
80
In fact, there are two categories of dharma protectors: wisdom protectors and worldly protectors. The latter are still subject to afflictive
emotions and the karmic law of cause and effect, just like us ordinary
beings. However, emanating from the unobstructed power of great
compassion of Guru Rinpoche, the Nechung protector is a genuine
wisdom protector and is renowned as the King of Karma or King of
Activity among the Five Great Kings, the five most powerful spirit
heroes who provide protection against enemies. Among all the dharma
protectors, the Nechung protector is the main protector who was designated by Guru Rinpoche to protect all dharma and to bring peace
and happiness to all sentient beings in the Land of Tibet. For any
practitioners who pray to or meditate on this Nechung protector, any
form of misfortune or disaster will be completely dispelled.
1.14: Chojé praying with his palms joined
Here, your dharma center has become the pillar of all dharma activities
in this place. Please make your center more stable, more prosperous,
and more long-lasting. To make it happen, it is especially essential to
wholeheartedly praise and make offerings to the Nechung protector.
I am really happy to be able to come to this Nechung Temple because
it is indeed an auspicious start that my first stop to teach the dharma
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 81
in western countries takes place in the dharma center of Nechung. I
strongly believe that, from now on, every activity I engage in will be
free from obstacles or unfavorable conditions.
In addition, I encourage every one of you to pray to Guru Rinpoche
sincerely and make a great effort to engage in the practice of generation
and completion stages dedicated to Guru Rinpoche. In brief, Guru
Padmasambhava is the one who vigorously performs and carries out
all enlightened activities of all buddhas. If you pray to him, his compassion and blessings come more swiftly than other buddhas. Especially
in this place, everyone seeks refuge and hope in Guru Rinpoche, and
he is also the only and ultimate field of refuge of the Nechung protector. So, if you pray to Guru Rinpoche, you are like-minded with
the Nechung protector, and you will surely achieve extraordinary
spiritual attainments. As mentioned earlier, it was Orgyen Rinpoche
Padmasambhava who initially entrusted the Nechung protector as the
lord of all dharma protectors. Also, in various sadhanas of making
offerings to this protector, practitioners are required to clearly visualize themselves as Orgyen Padmasambhava. When I visited India,
the Nechung protector told me that he had never broken a samaya
commitment and never would, both now and in the future. Finally,
he encouraged me to propagate the dharma, especially that which is
related to the activities of Guru Rinpoche.
These accounts have been recorded in written format, so you could
refer to them if you are interested in knowing more.
82
Guru Yoga of Manjushri
In the afternoon, Yidzhin Norbu taught the practice manual of the Peaceful
Manjushri, Placing Buddhahood within Reach. He elaborated on the part from
guru yoga to the completion stage. For the part on the Great Perfection, he only
granted the oral transmission without any explanation.
Following is a passage from his teaching on guru yoga:
Some people perceive their gurus as ordinary human beings who have
bodies of flesh and blood. Others view their guru as Manjushri himself,
and if they touch their guru, they feel they are touching Manjushri.
Among these two views, which one is correct?
To perceive the guru as Manjushri is correct. There are many reasons
to support this view, but I am afraid I will not have enough time to
expound on this topic extensively.
To make it simple, your guru really is Manjushri, and that is why you
need to visualize the guru as Manjushri. In this practice of the guru
yoga of Manjushri, you should consider that the essence of Manjushri
is your root teacher. Why? Because if you perceive both the appearance
and essence as Manjushri, there may be a tendency to feel Manjushri
is beyond your reach. To many of you, Manjushri is the noble one
residing at Mount Wutai, who went to India many times when the
Buddha was physically there but has little to do with where you are
living now. If you pray to him, it might seem you would receive little
blessings. On the contrary, your root guru has come to you in person
and bestowed empowerments and teachings, so you would naturally
feel much closer to him and that it is easier to receive great blessings if
you pray to him. For this reason, when you visualize Manjushri, you
should know that his essence is your root guru.
If you want to achieve the realization of the Great Perfection, the best
way is to pray to your guru. If you already have some realization of the
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 83
Great Perfection but wish to improve your experience and attainment,
letting it continuously increase and lead you to buddhahood, there is
no better method than praying to your guru. Therefore, it is essential
to meditate on and pray to your guru.
Here is the method to visualize and practice guru yoga. Firstly, visualize
your root guru in the space in front of you in the form of Manjushri
and reflect, “From now on, other than you, I will never seek another
refuge, and even in my dreams, I will only pray to you, my guru.” With
devoted faith, make the mandala offerings to the guru, visualizing
that you offer to your guru your body, possessions, and all root of
virtue accumulated throughout the three times. Then, contemplate
that in front of the guru, you sincerely disclose and confess all the
misdeeds and downfalls created in all lifetimes since beginningless
time, swearing that even when your life is at risk, you would never
commit those misdeeds again. This is the remedy to purify misdeeds.
Next, contemplate, “I would only pray to you, my guru. Please grant
me empowerment and pith instruction so that my mind will be brought
to maturity and liberation.” Again, reflect, “Please bless me so that I
can practice the Great Perfection’s path of clear light and achieve the
same realization as yours.” Like this, you need to pray to the guru
with total devotion.
The verse of this prayer was directly transmitted and taught by the
Buddha, so it possesses extremely powerful blessings. When you recite
it, do not recite it in English, but in the original Tibetan language. Here
it is:
zhon nu’i ku lu jang wa po
Appearing in the form of a youthful kaya,
yeshé dron mé rab tu gyan
Splendidly adorned with the wisdom luminosity
84
jigten ti mug mun sel wa
That can dispel the darkness of ignorance in the world—
jampé yang la sol wa deb
To you, Lord Manjushri, I pray.
The first line depicts what Bodhisattva Manjushri looks like. He appears
as a youth sixteen years old. Splendidly adorned with the wisdom luminosity
indicates that Manjushri is the embodiment of the omniscient wisdom
of all buddhas, so he is adorned with the luminosity of wisdom. Just as
a lamp can dispel darkness, the great wisdom of Bodhisattva Manjushri
can remove the stupidity and ignorance of all sentient beings. In front
of such a lord, Bodhisattva Manjushri, pray sincerely to bless your
mind streams. While contemplating in this way, wholeheartedly chant
this four-line prayer a thousand, ten thousand, or even one hundred
thousand times.
In the end, visualize that from the middle of the guru’s eyebrows, his
throat, and his heart center radiate respectively white, red, and blue
light rays that dissolve into your three corresponding places. Thereby,
all the misdeeds and obscurations of your body, speech, and mind
are purified, and you obtain the qualities of your guru’s three kayas.
Finally, the guru melts into light that again dissolves into you, whereby
you and the guru become the same. At this point, concentrate on the
state that is imbued with the view of the Great Perfection. Relax and
abide. When conceptual thoughts arise again, visualize that the entire
universe and the inhabitants within are the body of the guru, all sound
is the speech of the guru, and all thoughts are the wisdom of the guru.
Remain in this pure perception and dedicate the virtue to all sentient
beings to attain supreme buddhahood.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 85
Guru Yoga of Guru Rinpoche Padmasambhava
That day, His Holiness also taught a guru yoga practice of Guru Rinpoche
Padmasambhava composed by Ju Mipham Rinpoche (Shower of Blessings).a Here
is the teaching:
First, you do not need to perceive yourself as the deity. You simply
visualize your body as it is in your ordinary form. Then, in the space in
front of you appears the immaculate Dhanakosha Lake of Oddiyana,
which is filled with the pure water of eight good qualities. It was the
place where Guru Padmasambhava was born.
Then, in the center of the lake, visualize a thousand-petaled lotus
blossom. Atop that is a full moon disk, upon which sits Orgyen
Rinpoche, Padmasambhava. His complexion is white, tinged with
red, brimming with energy and vitality. His right hand holds a vajra,
and his left hand a skull cup containing a jeweled vase. His body is
adorned with the ornaments of the perfect sambhogakaya, including
the five silk ornaments and eight jewel ornaments. He is in union with
Yeshe Tsogyal, who is white in color and holds a curved knife in her
right hand and a skull cup in her left hand. Surrounding them are all
the noble beings in the mandala of self-occurring tantras. You must
visualize all these clearly and distinctly.
Third, in front of the visualized Guru Rinpoche, reflect, “Whether I go
up or down and whether I experience agony or joy, misfortune or fortune, the omniscient Guru Rinpoche, know me. Please bless me.” With
tremendous faith and devotion, pray to him sincerely and fervently.
Then, in terms of your body, place your palms together; in terms of
speech, sing respectful prayers; and in terms of the mind, recollect his
excellent qualities. Thus, you pay homage to him respectfully.
Next, contemplate, “I offer to you, Guru Rinpoche, all that I am
excessively attached to, including my body, possessions, and all root
a
chin lab char beb (byin rlabs char ’bebs).
86
of virtue accumulated throughout the three times.” Visualize making
offerings to Guru Rinpoche in this way.
Then, confess negative deeds by thinking, “Since beginningless time
until now, life after life, I have committed limitless misdeeds driven by
desire, anger, and ignorance. For all the misdeeds I have done, now I
confess and openly disclose in front of you, Guru Rinpoche. I regret
whatever misdeeds I have done before, and I swear never to repeat
them even when my life is at risk. Please bless me so that my downfalls
and misdeeds can be completely purified.”
1.15: Left to right: Khenpo Namdrol, Ngodrup Dorje, and Sangye Khandro
Next, rejoice over others’ virtue in this way: “For any virtue created by
anyone, whether inferior or superior to me, I sincerely rejoice without
envy or enmity.” Like this, if you can really rejoice at the virtue of
others, you will not only accumulate the same merit but also may be
able to attain more excellent merit than the actual doer. Therefore, it is
very necessary to rejoice from the bottom of your heart at the virtue of
any other individual.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 87
Next is to beseech Guru Rinpoche to remain in this world. As long
as space remains, the vajra body of Padmasambhava is beyond birth
and death, so actually there is no need to pray to him to remain
in this world. However, his nirmanakaya appears in the world in
various forms according to the various inclinations of sentient beings.
So, we still need to pray to him to remain in this world as long as
possible. Then, contemplate that you supplicate the emanations of
Guru Rinpoche to turn the wheel of dharma for the benefit of all
sentient beings until samsara is emptied.
Then, dedicate all your virtue that has been accumulated to the
attainment of the same state and accomplishment as Guru Rinpoche.
Next, pray for Guru Rinpoche’s blessing so that the misdeeds, obscurations, and downfalls of your body, speech, and mind will be
completely purified. Visualize that all the qualities of Guru Rinpoche’s
body, speech, and mind enter into your own mind, so that you can
conduct vast activities to spread the dharma and benefit sentient
beings.
Finally, contemplate that through praying in this way, from the heart
center of Guru Rinpoche, fine shafts of light with five colors radiate and
extend into your own heart center like a spider’s thread and dissolve
there. In this way, you attain all the excellent qualities of body, speech,
and mind of Guru Rinpoche. While you meditate in this way, recite
fervently the Seven-Line Prayera and the mantra of Guru Rinpoche.
The Seven-Line Prayer is all-embracing, and all dharma is condensed
into it. If I were to teach it, I can explain it from all levels of dharma.
Ju Mipham Rinpoche has presented an elaboration of it in his White
Lotus,
b an explanation of the Seven-Line Prayer to Guru Padmasambhava,
which you can refer to. So, I will skip explaining the meaning here.
a
tsig dün sol deb (tshig bdun gsol ’debs).
b pema karpo (padma dkar po).
88
In brief, the Seven-Line Prayer is of immense blessing, completely transcending any other practice. So, now I will give you the transmission:
Hung
In the northwest country of Oddiyana,
Upon the stamen of a lotus flower,
Having realized the most astonishing supreme siddhi,
You are known as the Lotus Born,
Surrounded by your retinue of countless dakinis.
Following you, I practice.
Please approach and bestow your blessings.
Guru Padma Siddhi Hung
om ah hung benzar guru padma siddhi hung
In daily recitations, you need to recite the mantra of Guru Rinpoche
and the Seven-Line Prayer as much as possible. At the end of each
session, visualize that from the middle of his eyebrows, his throat, and
his heart center radiate white, red, and blue light rays, which dissolve
into your three places. Through this, the blessing of the body, speech,
and mind of the guru enters your mind stream. Finally, the guru melts
into light, which transforms into a perfectly round and rosy, white
bindu, or light sphere, with a hung syllable in its center as adornment.
Contemplate that the bindu dissolves into your heart center, whereby
the guru’s wisdom and your mind merge inseparably and become of
one taste. Abide in this state of realization without any thought and
rest in samadhi. Ah Ah Ah...
Following that, Yidzhin Norbu imparted the transmission of the Excellent
Vase of Splendor,
a
the tsok feast offering to accompany the vajra Seven-Line Prayer.
When giving that transmission, he taught a very useful instruction:
a pal gyi büm zang (dpal gyi bum bzang).
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 89
As for the tsok feast offering, you can offer whatever pleasing food and
beverages you have. You can place them in front of the representatives
of the Three Jewels or on an individually set altar or the like. Then,
chant this concise sadhana of tsok offering and visualize offering them
to Guru Rinpoche and the gathering of dakas and dakinis. Visualize
that they accept and enjoy your offering, after which you eat the
remainders as a way of accepting siddhis. This is a great method
to effortlessly perfect your accumulations. Because of this, I would
suggest you make tsok offerings and recite this sadhana on a regular
basis as much as you can.
As for the way of reciting this sadhana, you can follow what I taught or
just follow exactly the complete ritual of Ju Mipham Rinpoche. Practice
in either way that makes you feel comfortable.
It would also be a good idea to practice tsok offering at each meal
every day. Before each meal, you could recite the following four-line
stanza of tsok offering to turn eating into a virtuous activity.
Hung
Hung
ah lé choying dang nyam kapalar
With ah, a skull cup appears as vast as the space
of dharmadhatu.
om lé nang sid dod yon tsok su sham
With om, all appearance and existence are displayed
as the tsok offerings.
hung gi dechen yeshé rolpar gyur
With hung, they transform into the wisdom play
of great bliss,
hrih yi tsa sum lha tsok gyépa kang
With hrih, gurus, yidams, dakinis, and all the deities gathered are
pleased and satisfied.
90
Although eating itself is just an ordinary mundane activity, if you
recite this sadhana and visualize offering the meal to Guru Rinpoche,
having meals can also accumulate great merit. So, I would encourage
you to recite it very often.
Chased by a Rainbow
Along the southeastern shore of the island of Hawaii, between Nechung Dorje
Drayang Ling and the Pacific Ocean, Hawaii Volcanoes National Park is located.
It is a world-renown volcanic area, which contains two of the most active
volcanoes in the world. On the afternoon of June 20th, we paid a visit there.
When passing by some valleys on our way there, some locals told us that the
volcanoes had been erupting from time to time in the recent decade and that
the lava from the crater ran all the way to the south of the island, covering the
road and gushing into the Pacific Ocean. They also showed us the ferocious
imprint of the magma’s solidification.
1.16: Left to right: Chojé, Lama Mumtso, Ani Medron, and Khenpo Sodargye
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 91
1.17: Chojé on the shore in Hawaii
After arriving at the park, we first
went to the visitor center. There, we
watched some documentary films
about volcanic eruptions in Hawaii
and learned about some local history.
Afterward, we drove to the seashore.
This was the first time we got so close
to the boundless Pacific Ocean. We
could not go too close to the lava,
but from where we stood, we could still clearly see the dense steam that surged
into the air where the scorching lava entered the water. The water in that area
was boiling and bubbling. We were told that even around that hot spot in the
water, there were oceanic creatures living. Amazed, Yidzhin Norbu said, “How
inconceivable the karma of sentient beings is!”
1.18: The rainbow chasing Chojé
On our way back, an amazing thing happened—a rainbow followed Khenpo Rinpoche
just like a shadow. Wherever his car moved,
the rainbow moved closely. Hawaii is known
as the Rainbow State, so it is not unusual to
see rainbows in Hawaii. But this rainbow was
really different since it seemed to chase after Rinpoche a long way and followed his car
closely. So, he stopped and sat down by the
road to take a picture with that rainbow as
the background. After a while, the rainbow
gradually disappeared. I noticed that Chojé
kept reciting something silently, not sure if it
had something to do with Pele, the Hawaiian Goddess of Volcanoes and Fire.
92
1.19: Chojé with the rainbow that chased him
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 93
Left a Pair of Shoes
1.20: The leather sandals purchased for Chojé
As Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok departed from the
Land of Tibet, I had packed some light summer
clothes, but no extra shoes for him. So, he arrived
on this tropical island in his heavy Tibetan leather
boots. It certainly would be too hot and cumbersome if His Holiness had to wear them all the
way on this tour, especially in such a place with a
tropical climate.
So, I found a chance to ask someone in the
temple to take me to a shopping mall in Hilo
nearby. When we entered the mall, I was amazed
that there were neither glass sales counters nor
salespeople standing behind the counters. All the
goods were neatly displayed within customers’
reach, so I could freely pick up anything I felt
interested in.
Out of a large selection of shoes, I picked up
a pair of sturdy leather sandals. It was priced at
over 70 US dollars, almost 800 RMB at that time.
Although they were quite pricey, I still bought
them, because His Holiness’ feet were too large
to fit comfortably even in the largest-size shoes in
China. I was very glad to get him a pair of well-fitting shoes in America.
After we got back, His Holiness tried them on, and they turned out to be
a perfect fit and comfortable. His Holiness wore them during our entire trip,
and even after we returned to the Land of Tibet, he would still wear this pair of
94
shoes often. They were worn by His Holiness on many occasions throughout
his life but had never broken down.
When we left Hawaii, His Holiness’ Tibetan leather boots were left at
Nechung Dorje Drayang Ling. The resident lama held them as a treasure. He
wrapped them in a piece of yellow cloth, locked them in a cabinet for years, and
only showed them to a couple of fortunate people.
1.21: The pair of leather boots left by Chojé in Hawaii, preserved by Nechung
Temple for almost thirty years
So far, this pair of shoes has been preserved on this island for almost thirty
years. Until recent years, I entrusted a person to try to get them back with an
amount of donations for the temple. After multiple attempts, the people in
charge of the temple finally agreed.
In 2017, I was invited by some universities and monasteries in Hawaii to
give dharma lectures. That time, I wished to revisit the monastery. However,
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 95
due to some reasons out of my control, my itinerary to travel abroad that year
had to be canceled, so I did not make it in the end.
Nechung Protector Again
On the morning of June 21st, prior to giving the Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma empowerment, once again His Holiness talked about his connection with the Nechung
protector:
In the past, Orgyen Padmasambhava brought the dharma to Tibet and
made it shine throughout the Land of Snows. In order to make that
happen, it was necessary to stimulate all good conditions and dispel
any possible obstacles or unfavorable conditions. So, before coming to
Tibet, Guru Rinpoche carried with him this Vajrakilaya sadhana that
was hidden in a small pouch and hung around his neck. Since it was
such a special pith instruction that he rarely transmitted to anyone, this
sadhana was called the Vajrakilaya Neck-Pouch, or Phurba Gurkhukma in
Tibetan.
Speaking of dharma practice, it is a universal law that however profound a practice could be, if favorable conditions are not present, it is
unable to benefit sentient beings much; on the contrary, as long as all
favorable conditions come together, even a not-so-advanced practice
can immensely benefit sentient beings. In terms of the practice of
Vajrakilaya, it has never had even one trace of anything inauspicious,
and every interdependent arising related to it is perfect from the outer,
inner, or secret aspects.
The root holder of this practice is Gyalwa Rinpoche and the Nechung
protector, the chief of all dharma protectors. I handed it into their
hands right after I revealed this terma. How did I do so? Actually, I did
not directly ask Rinpoche to receive this practice from me, saying such
words like, “I have this sadhana, and it is better for you to practice
it.” It was Rinpoche who voluntarily came to me and said, “Since
96
you have this Vajrakilaya practice, please grant me its empowerment
and instructions for practice.” Then, treating it as making mandala
offerings to him, I offered him the empowerment and explained the
practice instructions.
1.22: Chojé with meditative expression when taking a rest
Out of immeasurable joy, he wrote the prayer to the lineage masters
of this practice, in which he made supplications to my various past
reincarnations. Moreover, when a fire offering sadhana for the Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma cycle appeared in my mind, he was beside me and
he wrote it down in person. Because he is a great spiritual guide who
makes incessant endeavors for world peace, that is something hard to
imagine. But it is the result of his previous aspiration and our karmic
connection.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 97
Then, how did I entrust this practice to the Nechung protector? He
received the empowerment directly when he descended into the body
of the oracle. Usually, since it is an intense process, the protector will
not stay for very long to receive any empowerments and teachings. But
that time, he stayed to receive empowerment and listened faithfully and
respectfully. During the teaching, he offered me a buddha statue, a text,
and a stupa and exhorted me, “Please rely on this Vajrakilaya practice
to benefit sentient beings more extensively. Also, please compose a
sadhana of subjugating activity.” Therefore, at that time when I was
in Dharamshala, I composed an offering prayer to him to show my
appreciation, because he had helped me to accomplish what I wished
for.
This time, when I just came here (Hawaii), at the request of the Nechung
protector and many disciples here, I also composed a four-line prayer
to the protector. If you chant these two prayers regularly, the Nechung
protector will wholeheartedly assist you and give you uncommon
great protection.
My relationship with the Nechung protector is not newly created; our
bond has been established and strengthened through many lifetimes.
In the past, Terton Sogyal had given the protector empowerments,
teachings, and many instructions. The Nechung protector also predicted different things that the terton needed to do and guided him
to find the places where termas were hidden. Between the thirteenth
Gyalwa Rinpoche Thubten Gyatso and Terton Sogyal, the Nechung
protector would take messages back and forth to assist their communication. As I mentioned yesterday, when I was in Dharamsala, the oracle
came to me. At that time, I was talking about stories happening in my
previous life. Then, the protector descended, and he was overjoyed,
like a father and a son meeting again after a long separation. Imbued
with faith and devotion, he came close to me and burst into tears.
His facial expressions showed that his devotion and faith in me is
overwhelming.
98
When I visited Nechung Monastery the next day, some monk asked
me, “Would you like to invite the Nechung protector to come?” It
occurred to me that if he were to give prophecies regarding political
matters, I would have trouble when I go back. So, I declined, “Thank
you, but no.” However, because they already knew what happened
the day before, they said, “Although you do not invite the protector
to come, observing from his joyful expression and respectful manner
when meeting you, it is very likely that he will suddenly descend.”
Thus, the apparel for the protector was prepared.
Then, when I was giving the empowerment, the protector indeed
descended. When the oracle just went into a trance, the monks immediately put the special outfit on him. Then, the protector came, and
with unsurpassable respect and sincerity, he offered me a buddha
statue, a text, and a stupa. Complying with my wish, he did not touch
on politics, said some auspicious words about flourishing the dharma
and bringing peace and happiness to sentient beings, and wished
Gyalwa Rinpoche to remain in this world for a very long time and for
his activities to flourish. What the protector said was written down,
and you can refer to it for details.20
In addition, there are more stories about my connection with the
Nechung protector, but it would take a very long time if I elaborate as
you may wish, so I think what I have said so far is good enough. All in
all, I have just briefly explained to you about the wonderful occasion of
how this practice was transmitted to its root holder Gyalwa Rinpoche
and the Nechung protector. Because this practice has such an unusual
background, it is filled with enormous blessing power unmatched by
any other practice. It is from this Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma practice that
Guru Rinpoche began his dharma propagation in Tibet, and it is the
mother of all dharmas in Tibet. Anyone who practices it will enjoy all
wonderful and auspicious circumstances, eliminate all misfortunes,
and have all their wishes fulfilled.
Now, I am going to give you the empowerment of Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma.
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 99
1.23: Chojé going out on a tour
Later that afternoon, we visited Punalu’u Black Sand Beach Park. It is made
from basalt sand formed from basaltic lava. After erupting from craters, lava
may run all the way to the ocean. When encountering the ocean water, it cools
down and becomes solidified. Through years of the scouring of water and
eroding of wind, black sand has come into being. Besides, the pitch-black sand
beach is a recreation area with picnic tables and benches and beautiful palm
trees embellishing the coastline. With all it can offer, this park is a very famous
tourist site on the Big Island. It was indeed a sight to gladden the heart. Chojé
enjoyed the scenery and got some relaxation. Now, this marked a perfect ending
of Rinpoche’s dharma propagation in Hawaii.
100
1.24: Chojé at the seaside
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 101
1.25: Chojé and his entourage with a lot of laughter
A Magical Country
During our stay in Hawaii, I was so impressed by the modern technology, as
well as the economic power of western countries. For instance, there was a
sound sensor light at the entrance of the building where we stayed. It would
turn on once someone passed the entrance and turn off after a while. The sound
of coughing could also turn it on. In those days, besides light bulbs, I had
never seen such things. It was really interesting to me. I thought there must be
someone hiding somewhere to operate it. Out of curiosity, I asked many people
how it was operated, but nobody could give me a good answer. They only knew
how to install or use it but did not know the principle of the technology.
102
1.26: Khenpo Sodargye in Hawaii
Also, everyone who attended the teachings had a big mobile phone and
drove a car. For me, this was unimaginable because in those years, even the
richest families in the Tibetan region, who were often referred to as a 10K yuan
family, meaning that their wealth has gone above 10,000 yuan, possessed only
bicycles, and there was barely anyone who owned a motorcycle. In most cases,
only the top officials working for the government could have the right to use a
car. Still, they could not drive the car themselves, and the car could be driven
only by an assigned driver. So, it was hard for me to imagine that everyone had
a car to drive by themselves.
Since Hawaii was our first stop, when we arrived there, I found so many
things interesting and new. Though after I got used to them they were not
so appealing anymore, they were really unforgettable to me. However, His
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 103
Holiness was never attracted to those material things. What he cared about was
how to help sentient beings get rid of afflictive emotions and how to liberate
them from samsara.
My Conch Is Filled with His Holiness’ Blessing
I had a chance to interview another Buddhist who attended Yidzhin Norbu’s
teachings in 1993, and his name is Greg Herbst. He has strong faith in Rinpoche
and is a very devoted practitioner. When he attended our interview, his friend
said, “He dressed up today.” Carefully taking out his giant conch and placing it
close to him, he started to tell us what he could recollect:
1.27: Greg Herbst now and the conch that
he placed by Chojé’s throne in 1993
When Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok
Rinpoche visited us, I worked as
a firefighter in Hawaii Volcanoes
National Park. The resident lama,
known fondly as Tipola, was my
teacher. Besides dharma practice,
I went to a lot of religious ceremonies of native Hawaiians.
The conch is an important instrument in their ceremonies, so I
learned how to blow it, and I am
quite good at it. So, following the tradition of Buddhism, I blew this conch
outside of the shrine room before Rinpoche started to teach. Then, I placed
my conch close to his throne when he taught because based on native
Hawaiians’ belief, the vibration of his voice would be stored as good
energy or mana, which is the Hawaiian word for divine energy. Based on
Buddhism, his voice could also be stored in the conch as blessing.
104
During Chojé’s stay, he visited the Volcanoes National Park. Since I
worked there, I took him to the office of the superintendent. When he was
introduced to a rock that Hawaiians believe to have some medical effect,
he was quite curious and asked, “Can it cure me?” When hearing that, I
guessed that His Holiness might have some health issues.
We also went to the crater, and the photo that has a rainbow in the
background was taken there. Then, we drove all the way to the coast to
see the place where lava fell from the cliff to the ocean. Yidzhin Norbu
and his entourage were all quite amazed. The photo of Rinpoche, Miguel,
and I was taken at Hawaii Volcanoes National Park.
1.28: Left to right: Greg Herbst, Chojé, and Miguel Schwabe
Though many years have passed, Yidzhin Norbu’s visit is still so vivid in
my memory. I guess it is from his direct blessing, as well as my conch. It
The 1st Stop: Hawaii, USA 105
stored his voice. I thought you would like to take a look, so I brought it
here. I can blow it for you. Dhuoo... Dhuoo...
But you know, even today, I still cannot believe that a great lama like
Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche would come all the way from the Land
of Tibet to our tiny temple to take care of us.
1.29: Chojé at the Black Sand Beach Park
2nd Stop
June 23rd–June 29th
United States
Boulder
Schedule
June 23rd
Arrived in Boulder
June 24th
Taught on Compassion in Buddhism at Karma Dzong Meditation Center
June 25th
Had physical examination at UC Health University of Colorado Hospital
June 26th
Taught on the Secret Mantrayana Method of Recognizing the Nature of Mind at
Lone Hawk Farm
June 27th
Taught on the Stage-by-Stage Practice of Milarepa at Mile Hi Church
June 28th
Taught on a Brief Introduction of Shambhala at Karma Dzong Meditation
Center
June 29th
Met with the managing members of Karma Dzong Meditation Center and
local Buddhists and gave a farewell talk
108
Arrived in Boulder
2.1: Chojé at San Francisco International Airport
After the journey to Hawaii, we set off for the
next stop, the Vajradhatu Shambhala Center in
Boulder, Colorado. On the afternoon of June
22nd, we flew from Hilo International Airport
to Honolulu International Airport, which was a
one-hour flight, and then proceeded on to our
flight to San Francisco. Five hours later, we arrived at San Francisco International Airport. We
were met at the airport by the tulkus and many
disciples who had arranged for our tour, which
included Venerable Gyatrul Rinpoche, Venerable Chagdud Rinpoche, Lingtrul Rinpoche, and
many others. Then, we went to rest at the home
of one of Gyatrul Rinpoche’s students in Menlo Park, where we spent the night
before proceeding on to Denver the next day.
2.2: Chojé and Gyatrul Rinpoche
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 109
On June 23rd, we left San Francisco in late morning and continued to fly
to Denver. The flight took about two and half hours, crossing the continental
divide and approaching the plains to the east of Denver, arriving at the previous
airport, Stapleton International. Our final destination of Boulder was another
hour’s drive from there.
2.3: View of Denver
2.4: Stapleton International Airport
110
The city of Boulder is located at the foot of the Rocky Mountains, where they
meet the great plains. It is a beautiful and quiet city, like a giant garden, full of
energy and passion. Along the way, we passed through many hills dotted with
high trees and pretty houses in various styles.
We were accommodated in Marpa House at 891 12th Street near the center
of Boulder. This was a residential dharma center of Vajradhatu in Colorado at
the time, and many great lamas who had come to Boulder to teach the dharma
had stayed there. Many practitioners were also living there in order to fully
engage themselves in dharma practice. They had renounced their hometowns
and careers in order to live a simple and meaningful life in this Vajradhatu
sangha community.
2.5: Marpa House
All this was due to the great kindness and personal charisma of Chogyam
Trungpa Rinpoche, who established Vajradhatu and attracted many Americans,
young and old, to the dharma path. This was a truly amazing and influential
event some fifty years ago. Vajradhatu later became a well-known international
organization and eventually included more than one hundred meditation
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 111
centers and several residential retreat centers in America and Europe. It is
considered one of the largest Buddhist organizations in the US.
As one of the main organizations that invited His Holiness Jigme Phuntsok
Rinpoche to the US, Vajradhatu provided us with great assistance in applying for
visas and getting approval for traveling abroad from both the US and Chinese
governments. This time, as scheduled, Yidzhin Norbu would stay six days in
Boulder and give dharma teachings to different groups of people.
Compassion in Buddhism
On June 24th, Yidzhin Norbu went to the Karma Dzong Meditation Center,
where a grand dharma assembly was held and many great masters, monastics,
lay Buddhist followers, as well as non-Buddhists, were gathered together to
receive Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok’s teaching. In the stately hall, Rinpoche was
seated on a well-adorned throne, and the host speaker introduced him to the
audience by saying:
His Holiness Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche is an unsurpassed scholar and
enlightened master of great accomplishment in today’s Land of Tibet.
He has perfected the Mahayana and Tantrayana teachings in all four
schools of Tibetan Buddhism. He is the embodiment of all buddhas. Just
by hearing his speech or seeing his face with pure faith, one will be able to
shut the door to the three lower realms. Such an auspicious opportunity
for us to be able to meet him in person indeed results from the tremendous
amount of merit accumulated in our many lifetimes.
Then, in accordance with the preference and capacity of the audience, Chojé
gave the following teaching:
112
With your great compassion, you embraced this turbulent
and degenerate world,
And made five hundred mighty aspirations.
As exalted as the white lotus,
Whoever hears your name shall never return to samsara—
Most compassionate teacher, Lord Buddha Shakyamuni,
to you I pay homage!
2.6: Chojé starting to teach in Boulder
Starting with this verse of praise and supplication to Buddha Shakyamuni, I pay homage to my heart deity and set my altruistic motivation
for giving this teaching.
Today, I would like to share with you the essence of the Buddhadharma,
the Buddhist view of vast and pervasive compassion, which is not
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 113
inconsistent with any other religious tradition in this world, such as
Christianity.
There are several important reasons for me to give this teaching in the
West. I have established the same view in the Land of Snows, namely,
that there is no inconsistency among the four major schools and many
other minor branches in Tibetan Buddhism. Certainly, all capable
masters and upholders of the Buddhadharma have the unshakable
responsibility to establish and explain this key point concerning the
similarities of the major traditions of Tibetan Buddhism. Personally, I
have taken it even a step further. I have engaged in actual practices to
bring all different schools and traditions together. As a result, now in
the Land of Tibet, the upholders and masters of all different lineages
enjoy a harmonious and cohesive relationship, and their followers
embrace the nonsectarian understanding of the various teachings and
practices that developed in Tibet. Given such a satisfactory result, I
have been acknowledged for this by many great masters. Now, as I
came to the West, I feel it is necessary for me to elaborate on this
idea again, letting people understand that the four major religious
traditions thriving on this planet, as well as many minor religions,
indeed lead to the same ultimate understanding.
To be specific, every religious tradition unanimously advocates for not
harming living beings and, additionally, benefiting living beings to
the best of one’s ability. If all religious followers, such as those of the
four major religious traditions, can uphold the same view and perform
the same code of conduct, then the peace of the whole world—the
fundamental issue that everyone cares about most—can be actualized
without hindrance, and everywhere on earth will be blessed with ease
and happiness. There is no doubt that all religions share the same
purpose for the benefit of this world.
Now, I will talk about this view from the perspective of Buddhism.
Some may wonder, “How do you actualize the teachings taught by
the Buddha?” The Buddha himself answered this question, “Avoid all
114
non-virtue and cultivate all that is virtuous.” This answer encompasses
the essence of all the Buddha’s teachings. Non-virtue refers to any
negative thought or deed that may bring harm to self or others and,
therefore, should be fully abandoned. If not, you will cause more and
more suffering to both self and others. Virtue refers to whatever can
be done to benefit self and others either physically or mentally. As
such, abandoning non-virtue and embracing virtue are the perfect
conduct and the perfect thought that encompass all key instructions
in Buddhism.
Perfect Conduct in Buddhism
Perfect conduct in Buddhism can be carried out through the practice
of the six paramitas.
Generosity means to dedicate your body, possessions, and all root
of virtue accumulated throughout the three times for the benefit of
all sentient beings. Some may ask, “Must I give away my body, my
possessions, and my virtue all at once?” I’m afraid nowadays nobody
in this world is capable of doing this; and because you do not have
such capability, this is all the more reason to follow the teachings in
the Buddhist scriptures and cultivate practice stage-by-stage. As your
mental capability becomes stronger, you can make greater offerings to
others. As it is said in Shantideva’s A Guide to the Bodhisattva Way of
Life:
Our guide instructs us to begin
By giving lesser things, such as vegetable greens.
At the very beginning, you train to offer simple, small amounts of
goods, such as vegetables or any edibles, as a way of practicing
generosity. Gradually, you will be able to give away more valuable
things, including clothing and belongings, and eventually, it may even
be possible to donate your spouse and children to benefit other living
beings.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 115
Such practice is essential to you. As the Buddha taught, if you hold
the thought, “If I give this away to others, what will be left for me
to enjoy?” such a self-centered thought of considering only personal
benefit first will land you in the realm of hungry ghosts. The behavior
based on such a thought is inferior. On the contrary, if you think,
“If I enjoy this first then what is left to give as an act of generosity
expressed toward others?” that kind of consideration for the benefit
of sentient beings will begin to lead you to the higher realms. The
conduct motivated by this consideration is wholesome and one that a
dharma practitioner should perform. Arya Shantideva states in his A
Guide to the Bodhisattva Way of Life:
“If I give this, what will be left for me?”
Thinking only of oneself is the way of evil ghosts.
“If I keep this, what will be left to give?”
Showing concern for others leads the way to higher rebirth.
Learning about this virtuous practice and its opposite, namely, nonvirtue, you engage actively in the practice of generosity for the sake of
peace and happiness for all sentient beings in their present and future
lives and then make appropriate dedication prayers. If you persevere
in this practice, eventually, the stage of a noble being will be reached.
At that time, there will be no difficulty for you to give away your head
or limbs in order to benefit others because you value generosity over
self-cherishing, knowing that your physical body is the same with
vegetables or any other inferior things by nature.
Discipline. In Buddhism, there are three types of discipline, i.e., the
vows of pratimoksha, the bodhisattva vows, and the samayas of Secret
Mantrayana. The vow of pratimoksha requires you to abstain from
harming others, such as killing. In addition, the bodhisattva vow
requires you to benefit others directly or indirectly and to save others
from suffering with your best efforts. Being trained in this way, once
the practitioner achieves unobstructed meditative absorption and
miraculous power, he or she can spontaneously benefit billions of
116
sentient beings every day. This is the samaya of Secret Mantrayana,
which involves swiftly accomplishing vast activities for the welfare of
all sentient beings. It is certain that every one of you can reach this
stage.
Patience. Following the Buddha’s teaching on purifying your own mind,
you should never disturb others’ minds but focus only on taming your
own mind. This is the root practice in Buddhism. Certainly, you should
not speak unkind words or do unkind things that would be harmful
to others. Just observe your own mind and rid yourself of any negative
or malicious mental state, such as anger directed toward others.
Diligence means to joyfully engage in virtuous activities and practices
and, more specifically, to take pleasure in maintaining harmless and
peaceful behavior. How do you do that? It is through cultivating
loving kindness and compassion toward others. Compassion means, for
instance, when you see someone who suffers from a physical illness
or undergoes any heartbreaking misfortune, you think, “May they
be free from all kinds of suffering.” Loving kindness means to hold an
attitude such as thinking, “How wonderful it would be if all beings
could always enjoy peace and happiness.”
Temporary peace and happiness refer to longevity, good health, abundant possessions, widespread fame, and so on in this ordinary world.
You sincerely wish that sentient beings enjoy all these types of happiness. This wish needs to be further cultivated through gradual practice
and, ultimately, cultivating the prayer that all beings may attain the
utmost bliss and happiness in the pure land of Sukhavati the moment
they pass away. What you experience in the pure land is beyond
description since any type of happiness in this mundane world cannot
compare with it. Therefore, maintaining this motivation, you need to
diligently learn and practice the methods of directing yourself and
others to take rebirth in Sukhavati.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 117
The methods of taking rebirth in Sukhavati are to pray to the Buddha,
practice the dharma, and serve the sangha with respect. If you can
perform these wholesome deeds in regard to the Three Jewels, you will
be much happier in old age. The reason is that through these practices,
you will soon be reborn in Sukhavati and enjoy happiness hundreds
of thousands of times greater than whatever was experienced in this
world. Therefore, incomparable joy will be felt.
Generally speaking, for most people, death is approaching as they age,
and as a result, they feel more pain in both the body and the mind.
However, for those who engage diligently in the Sukhavati practice,
they will not have a fear of death but rather will be much readier for
the transition when the time comes. As the Buddha told us, those
practitioners aspiring to take rebirth in Sukhavati will become more
joyful when their lives come to an end. Why? Just like a severely sick
person would be overjoyed when recovering fully from sickness, a
person who is able to be reborn in the pure land will completely rid
himself or herself of suffering in samsara. Such is the unique outcome
that only the Buddhist tradition can provide. An ordinary person
would be ecstatic if he became the world’s richest man tomorrow,
whereas the bliss and happiness attained from liberation is hundreds
or thousands of times greater than that. That is why a Sukhavati
practitioner becomes more and more joyful as this life approaches its
end.
This is obvious in your daily life. All excellent dharma practitioners
enjoy more happiness and ease as they get older, while most ordinary
people become more distressed in the face of aging. The difference
between the two tells us of the qualities of the Buddhadharma.
Some may wonder, “Is it possible for an ordinary person to be reborn
in the pure land of Sukhavati?” The answer is “yes,” without a doubt.
If you can spend half the effort and hard work that you would put
into your worldly lives in practicing the dharma, and in particular,
118
never forget praying to the Three Jewels, I promise that you will be
successfully reborn in Sukhavati.
Meditative concentration is to single-pointedly pray to the Buddha,
practice the dharma, and show respect to the sangha without any
distraction. As such, diligently and constantly engage in spiritual
practice.
The way of meditation varies among different religions, including
Christianity, Islam, and Buddhism. According to the view of Buddhism,
the essential point of meditation is to settle the mind in single-pointed
concentration. For instance, if you think of Buddha Shakyamuni at all
times and under all circumstances, that would be the perfect practice
of meditative concentration.
Transcendental wisdom is to realize how to abandon non-virtue and
engage in virtue. To cultivate such wisdom, you need to first listen
to dharma teachings in the presence of a qualified teacher and then
contemplate the meaning in order to dispel doubts. Finally, you must
blend these teachings with the mind and put them into actual practice
through meditation. Through this process, you will develop a firm
conviction in the truthfulness of the dharma.
If you can deepen the wisdom of contemplation and the wisdom of
meditation, it will become easier to understand advanced scientific
knowledge. Although many religions in this world cannot keep up
with the pace of science and remain consistent with the view of
science, Buddhism can nonetheless coexist with science and support
its development. As you learn the Buddhadharma, the discoveries
and theories of science will very likely resonate with you. In the same
manner that you broaden your knowledge of science from different
dimensions, a conviction in Buddhism can readily arise in your mind.
If you go deeper into the Buddhadharma, it will be clear that there
are similar descriptions in Buddhist scriptures on the mysteries of
science that puzzle many people and that the Buddha has already
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 119
addressed the hidden meaning and rules that have been or have
not been discovered by scientists. It is worthwhile for any of those
who want to better themselves in regard to material possessions or
spiritual wealth to study and practice Buddhism, and they will soon
find themselves greatly benefited from the dharma. I am sure such a
benefit can be verified by everyone’s personal experience.
That being said, I do not have much time to expound on this topic.
Now, in the Land of Tibet, there exist both the Kangyur and Tengyur,
the total of which are more than three hundred volumes. You may
refer to them for a more detailed exposition on the perfect conduct in
Buddhism. For now, let’s move on to the next topic.
Perfect Thought in Buddhism
The Buddha claimed that all sentient beings equally share the same
aspiration to attain happiness and to be free from suffering. This is an
uncommon teaching that other religions in this world are not able to
preach. Many other religions aim at benefiting most sentient beings,
but inevitably bring harm to some other beings. For instance, they
work for the well-being of humankind, while unfortunately depriving
animals of their lives. Or they are only concerned with the benefit
of a certain group and completely disregard others’ bodies and lives.
Buddhism can never be like this because the goal is to benefit all beings
without a single exception.
The Buddha said in the sutras, “Just like you would treat yourself,
never harm others.” Anything beneficial to you is also beneficial to
others, and anything harmful to you is also harmful to others. All
living beings wish to be happy and wish to avoid suffering, and this
mindset applies to everyone. That is why the essence of Buddhism
can be condensed into the key point of wishing to bring benefit to
all living beings. A person who is able to put themself in another’s
position and be thoughtful of others could not possibly dislike the
path of Buddhism.
120
I’ll give you an example to illustrate this. If there are two companions,
one of whom often helps you, while the other often annoys you, which
one will you like? I am sure that you will choose the person who is
kind and helpful but stay away from the malicious one. Just like you,
all beings prefer those that help them and try to keep their distance
from those who harm them. Buddhism is a religious tradition that
unfailingly aims to bring benefit to each and every sentient being.
If you are able to analyze the Buddhist philosophy rationally and
objectively, it is certain that you will come to love Buddhism.
Great masters who follow in the footsteps of the Buddha have the
same goal in their activities. Generally speaking, there are masters of
perfect qualities, of middling qualities, and of inferior qualities. How
do you distinguish these three types of masters? The perfectly excellent
masters can extensively benefit all beings and absolutely refrain from
harming any of them. The middling ones can benefit beings while
occasionally and unintentionally bringing harm to them. The inferior
ones are those who completely neglect the well-being of others and
always inflict severe harm on them, considering only themselves. So,
there are good and bad masters in Buddhism, and the key criterion to
recognize them is whether they are able to benefit sentient beings.
The same applies to your worldly lives. For instance, if someone in
the US is intelligent, capable, and very kindhearted, it is generally
considered that this person will very likely make a beneficial impact
on their community and even the country at large. On the contrary, if
there is a person who has great ability but harbors hostility toward
society for the sake of a personal agenda, then it is agreed that this
person would be unable to bring much peace or harmony to the
country. Therefore, it is unanimous that people from anywhere in the
world, whether American or Tibetan, always prefer consideration and
kindness rather than those bringing harm to others.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 121
2.7: Chojé joyfully sharing the dharma with the audience
Many of you present here are already Buddhists, and you understand
my points. I hope all of you can develop a deeper love for Buddhism
and engage more diligently in dharma practice.
Some of you who are followers of Christianity would also love the
Buddhist philosophy of altruism. As we know, when being crucified,
Jesus Christ underwent unimaginable suffering. But he knew his
crucifixion was necessary to pay for the sins of all humankind and
to make it possible for humankind to attain happiness. Carrying the
pain and suffering of others and bestowing happiness upon them was
the spirit of Jesus, which inspired numerous people to follow him,
and that is what gave birth to the religion of Christianity. I believe
his altruistic practice is the fundamental reason that Christianity has
remained thriving in the world for so many centuries. Christianity is
also a religion that aims for the benefit of many sentient beings.
For some of you who are non-believers, if you are curious and truly
searching for what Buddhism advocates, I believe you will take delight
in hearing the answer. The reason is obvious. If you want to be happy,
122
then being helpful to others certainly makes you happy; but if you hurt
others, it is impossible for you to enjoy any happiness. To the degree
of how you have helped your friends, you receive the same amount of
joy and benefits as a reward. But if you hurt them either to their face
or behind their back, you would have no way to be truly joyful.
For others who just want to pursue worldly pleasures and security
with food, clothes, and all necessities, it is also essential to follow the
sublime path of Buddhism that is tranquil and harmless and to joyfully
practice the dharma as much as possible.
I sincerely wish all of you present here, as well as all your friends,
can truly practice this unique and peaceful path of not harming any
sentient beings. May you enjoy auspiciousness and happiness! Tashi
Delek!
Physical Examination at UC Health
Yidzhin Norbu felt quite well on this trip, but, still, since he had a few basic
health issues and was in the US where advanced health care technologies
were available, all of his disciples urged him to take this opportunity to have a
thorough check-up and, in particular, to see if his eyesight could be restored.
Therefore, we put his physical examination on the schedule and made an
appointment at UC Health University of Colorado Hospital.
On June 25th, we accompanied Chojé to the hospital. UC Health was founded
in 1989 and has been recognized as one of the nation’s top hospitals. Back in
1993, it was renowned for vision diagnosis and treatment. It was clean and
quiet in the hospital, and the entire medical staff seemed kind. They spoke in
an affable manner, avoiding any unsuitable words that might annoy the patient.
They followed an orderly way to do the examination, performing every step
without haste. The nurse first did some regular tests with instruments and kept
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 123
a record of the results, and then the doctor came for a detailed inquiry before
continuing with a few specialized instruments. When they needed Yidzhin
Norbu to follow their instructions, they spoke very gently, “Now, please look to
the left, that’s great... And now, please look to the right, you did a good job...”
The whole process made us feel relaxed and left me with a lasting positive
impression.
The result of Rinpoche’s examination was positive. His overall health condition was satisfactory, but, unfortunately, there was no effective method to restore
his sight, which was probably due to the lack of merit on the part of sentient
beings. On the same day, Ani Medron also had a physical check-up because of
certain heart problems that caused her to be on regular medication.
Missed the Homeland
One afternoon while Yidzhin Norbu was resting in his room, Ani Medron,
Lama Mumtso, and I enjoyed leisure time on the grass outside the door. The sun
was shining and the sky blue, dotted with white clouds. Looking at the snow
mountains in the distance, a familiar feeling made us think of our homeland.
2.8: The distant view of Boulder
124
Although it was less than half a month since we had left the Land of Tibet,
perhaps because this was our first time crossing the endless Pacific Ocean
and we were in such a faraway and unfamiliar country, we began to feel quite
homesick and started to talk about our homeland. Lama Mumtso had a small
black tape recorder in her hand, playing some dharma songs that she had
recorded while in Tibet.
During the chat, a strong feeling welled up in my mind, and I expressed
this naturally, “As I accompany Lama Yidzhin Norbu on this trip, I feel intense
pressure and always worry if I have arranged everything well. But I feel truly
grateful that Rinpoche takes me with him, and I truly cherish this golden
opportunity that is upon me. All of you have shown inexpressible kindness to
me. Aside from the fact that Yidzhin Norbu has transmitted so many dharma
teachings, you also support me in my life. Especially during my first winter
(1985) at Larung Gar, I felt pinched since I barely had enough resources to
survive. Soon after coming back from Nyarong, Chojé and you gave me 50 RMB
(Chinese currency) and that carried me through the circumstances so that I
could focus wholeheartedly on my dharma study and practice. Also, both of
you give me nice food every new year. I will never forget your kind generosity
and offer you my endless gratitude!”
2.9: Ani Medron and Lama Mumtso enjoying leisure time on the grass
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 125
Ani Medron smiled and said to me, “Jigphun would also help many other
disciples, but you are very easygoing and do not decline his help. Unlike you,
some disciples decline his generosity with many excuses, and that makes us
feel embarrassed.”
We also talked about many experiences when we traveled together in India.
Lama Mumtso was not very talkative, but this time she also shared some stories
about her childhood.
The Secret Mantrayana Method of Recognizing
the Nature of Mind
On June 26th, Yidzhin Norbu was invited by Dzigar Kongtrul Rinpoche to Lone
Hawk Farm to give a teaching on the nature of mind.
Dzigar Kongtrul Rinpoche gave the opening speech:
Om Svasti! May all accomplishments be attained!
2.10: Arriving at Lone Hawk Farm
Before getting started, I want to
say a few words and also give a
brief introduction for His Holiness
Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche. When
an occasion like this occurs, it is
traditional to speak of the five perfections, or the five magnificent
factors of this grand event, which
are the perfect place, time, teacher,
retinue, and teaching.
First, the perfect place is here in Boulder, Colorado, which is a magnificent
place that has been blessed by His Holiness the sixteenth Gyalwang
126
Karmapa, Kyabjé Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche, Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche,
as well as many other great masters.
Second is the perfect time. This is the first time that all of us have gathered
together to have such an extended seminar of Nyingma Summer Seminar
in this country. This is a magnificent time for us.
Third is the perfect teacher. We are honored to have the magnificent
master, His Holiness Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche, here with us. Rinpoche
is a well-known master, a fully accomplished upholder of the Dzogchen
lineage, and also a noble terton. As we know, all great tertons are the
true embodiments of Guru Rinpoche Padmasambhava. Now, Khenpo
Rinpoche has been traveling all the way from the Land of Tibet, and we
are fortunate to have him present with us to teach the dharma.
Fourth is the perfect retinue. This is a magnificent retinue composed of
Venerable Jigme Khyentse Rinpoche, Venerable Gyatrul Rinpoche, as well
as all of us.
Fifth is the perfect teaching. On this magnificent occasion, I have requested
His Holiness to turn the wheel of dharma by giving us a direct pointingout instruction on Dzogchen Atiyoga, the direct teaching on the nature of
mind.
This wonderful event marks the time of our generation and our lives. I’d
like to conclude here, and I will make the mandala offering to Yidzhin
Norbu as all of us request him to turn the dharma wheel.
Then, Chojé started to give the following teaching:
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 127
It is auspicious that we joyfully gather together here today. I want
to start with the origin and history of Buddhism and talk about the
instructions on the nature of mind in a brief way.
Buddhadharma: From India to Tibet
From the perspective of ultimate truth, our root teacher, Buddha
Shakyamuni, who possessed all aspects of skillful means and cared for
us with great compassion and loving kindness, had already achieved
the fruition of the primordial protector, Buddha Samantabhadra.
From the perspective of his manifestation, the Buddha aroused the
supreme bodhicitta three countless eons ago, purified all defilements,
accumulated immeasurable merit, and eventually was able to achieve
buddhahood in Bodh Gaya, India, carrying out the twelve enlightened
deeds in this world more than 2,500 years ago.
Among these twelve deeds, the most essential one is the three turnings
of the wheel of dharma for the sake of inspiring and guiding fortunate
sentient beings. The first turning on the Four Noble Truths belongs to
the common vehicles. The second turning on the absence of characteristics and the third turning on fully distinguishing the reality beyond a
trace of doubt belong to the Mahayana path. All three turnings of the
wheel were for ordinary sentient beings. Aside from that, the Buddha
turned the wheel of dharma on the teaching of Secret Mantra that
belongs to the Vajrayana path according to the faculties of the supreme
sentient beings in the god realm, naga realm, yaksha realm, human
realm, and many others.
All teachings on the common or lesser vehicles were passed on to the
Seven Patriarchs,21 including Mahakashyapa who was appointed by
the Buddha to be his successor, Ananda who was the successor of
Mahakashyapa, and so forth. Thus, these teachings began to spread
and thrive in the world. For the common Mahayana doctrines, the
sections dealing with the profound view were compiled by Manjushri,
and the sections on extensive conduct by Maitreya, both of which have
128
flourished throughout the world. The uncommon Vajrayana teaching
of Secret Mantra was compiled and carried forward generally by the
lords of the three families and, specifically, by Vajrapani, the Glorious
Lord of Secrets, who had the main responsibility of transmitting the
tantric teaching to the human realm. Meanwhile, numerous great
masters, such as the Two Supreme Ones and Six Ornaments, ensured
that the Buddhadharma would thrive in the holy land of India, like
the sun shining on the earth forever.
The Buddha himself had prophesied, “My teaching will spread and
increase from north to north.” He had also foretold that eight years after
his parinirvana, one who would surpass him, Padmasambhava, would
appear in this world and would travel north to the Land of Snows
to propagate his teachings. Exactly as the Buddha’s own prophecy
declared, Guru Rinpoche went to Tibet.
2.11: Chojé teaching at Lone Hawk Farm
This mantra adept, Orgyen Tsokye Dorje or Padmasambhava, is the
single primary emanation of all three figures of Buddha Amitabha
in Sukhavati, Lord Avalokiteshvara in Mount Potala, and the unsurpassable Buddha Shakyamuni in Bodh Gaya. He was an unsurpassable
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 129
great being who carried out extensive dharma activities within the
three spheres—heaven, earth, and the subterranean—subjugating all
evil demonic forces and those disembodied entities who had broken
their vows. It was Padmasambhava who first dispelled all obstacles
and negative conditions to the spreading and thriving of the dharma in
Tibet by taming all vicious spirits, demonic forces, and vow-breaking
spirits. During the same period, the great Khenpo Bodhisattva, Shantarakshita, went to Tibet and propagated the Sutrayana teachings.
Later, the one hundred eight great panditas, including Vimalamitra
and Shantigarbha, were invited to Tibet, and the one hundred eight
great Tibetan translators, including Vairotsana, Kawa Peltsek, and
Chogro Lu’i Gyaltsen, were sent to India. As a result, the corpus of
the Buddhadharma that had remained in India was brought to Tibet
and translated into Tibetan. The flourishing of Buddhism in Tibet was
unparalleled, even compared to what had happened in the holy land
of India.
A few centuries later, when Venerable Atisha Dipamkara Srĳnana,
the intentional manifestation of Buddha Amitabha, came to Tibet,
he said, “Previously, I thought that I had mastered all the vast and
profound dharma flourishing in India and all the scriptures that had
been shown to me in the sky by dakinis dwelling in realms, such as
Oddiyana, yakshas’ and gandharvas’ realms, and all oceanic dharma
teachings, particularly, all tantric teachings, were within the scope
of my knowledge. However, when I saw the Sanskrit manuscripts
of tantras preserved at the Samye Monastery, I realized that what I
mastered was even less than one percent of them. There is no end to
the tantras of the Secret Mantra tradition! It appears that the teaching
has been propagated in Tibet as it had not been before, even in India.”
Once, the great accomplished master Orgyenpa, one of the founders
of the eight lineages of attainment, also spoke with deep feeling,
“In today’s Tibet, just the titles of all tantras in the Nyingma Secret
Mantra tradition are longer than the content of the complete Kangyur
130
and Tengyur. It is so inconceivable because those tantras include
everything!”
Back in that time, it was the Earlier Translation School of Ngagyur
Nyingma that flourished in Tibet. Later, the Sarma Schools that follow the Later Translations of Buddhist texts from India, including
Sakya, Kagyu, and Kadam, came into existence one after another.
The Kadampa was further developed into two main schools, the old
Kadampa that was founded by Venerable Atisha and the new Kadampa
or Gelugpa founded by the great Tsongkhapa.
The Uncommon Feature of Ngagyur Nyingma
Thinking about the flourishing of all the eight lineages of attainment in
Tibet such as Kadampa, as well as the great qualities of every lineage
master, it is true that all of them are the actual reincarnations of Orgyen
Rinpoche, Padmasambhava.
2.12: Audience joyfully listening to the
teaching
For example, in both Sakya Pandita’s biography and the prophecy
of Guru Rinpoche himself, it mentions that Sakya Pandita was the
emanation of Padmasambhava.
In the school of Kagyu, the peerless Gampopa, also known as the
Da-od Shonnu, or Chandraprabha,
said in his biography that he was
an emanation of Padmasambhava.
In the school of Kadam, there is the same statement that both Venerable
Atisha and the great Tsongkhapa were emanations of Padmasambhava.
As for the school of Jonang, some biographical writings claim that the
two well-known great lineage masters, Dolpopa and Taranatha, were
indeed manifestations of Padmasambhava.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 131
In the Father Teachings of the Kadampa School,
a Venerable Atisha said, “In
Tibet, all great lineage holders who spread the Buddhadharma in the
beginning, ensured its flourishing in the middle, as well as long-term
prosperity in the end are without exception manifestations of Orgyen
Rinpoche Padmasambhava.” Even Guru Rinpoche himself said, “As
long as you show devotion to me, the Buddhadharma will remain in
the world. If you ever start to lose faith in me and nobody remembers
to supplicate me, the dharma will quickly disappear from this world.”
From the perspective of ultimate truth, all great lineage holders and
patriarchs who were born in Tibet shared the same mind stream. From
the perspective of the phenomenal level, however, no such masters
as great as Orgyen Rinpoche Padmasambhava, the great Khenpo
Bodhisattva, and Vimalamitra have ever been born in the Tibetan Land
of Snows. Not only these inconceivably great panditas, no lotsawas
equal to those at the time of Padmasambhava have ever appeared in
later times.
Why can I make this conclusion? During the life of Lhodrak Marpa
Lotsawa, the matchless one among all translators who was responsible
for later translations was Ngok Loden Sherab. While attempting to
translate Maitreya’s Ornament of the Mahayana Sutrasb
from Sanskrit into
Tibetan, he noticed there were many ahrakha in the seventh chapter on
the six paramitas. This term ahrakha literally means “non-attachment”
in Sanskrit. Nyog Loden Sherab had no way to distinguish all the
repetitions of this Sanskrit term ahrakha by just translating every one
of them as “non-attachment,” and he actually had no idea what this
was actually referring to. Feeling frustrated, he did some research on
the Ngagyur Nyingma’s translation of Buddhist texts. Amazingly, he
found that the great translators in earlier times understood the proper
use of the same term ahrakha based on the sound of the syllables. Every
usage of the term ahrakha then had a specific meaning in regard to the
a
kadam pha chö (’ka’ gdams pha chos).
b
tekpa chenpo do de gyen ¯ (theg pa chen po mdo sde rgyan); Maitreyanatha.
132
six paramitas of generosity, discipline, patience, diligence, meditative
concentration, and wisdom. Moreover, in terms of every paramita, for
example generosity, there were three ahrakha referring respectively
to the generosity of the past, present, and future. He read a line of
translation which says:
Not going to be attached, not attached, and never having been
attached—
The nature of attachment is non-attachment.
As he noticed such beautiful paraphrases that took the factor of context
into full consideration, his arrogance was completely shattered, and
he composed a verse to express his admiration:
Vairotsana was like the boundless sky itself;
Kawa and Chok were like the sun and moon;
Rinchen Zangpo was like the great dawn star—
Compared to them, we are like mere fireflies.
This story indicates the extraordinary features of those great translators
who did the earlier translations in the time of Padmasambhava.
Speaking of the great panditas, Orgyen Rinpoche Padmasambhava
and Vimalamitra have already gone beyond the aging process of the
physical body. Orgyen Rinpoche now lives in Ngayab Ling, the southwest subcontinent of Jambudvipa, which is inhabited by rakshasas,
and there he turns the wheel of dharma to guide beings. Vimalamitra
now lives on Mount Wutai in the Han region and teaches the dharma
there.
All dharma practitioners who follow Padmasambhava, Vimalamitra,
and the great Khenpo Bodhisattva are called Nyingma followers. They
are able to learn and practice the complete and intact sutras and tantras,
and this is the uncommon feature of Nyingma.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 133
Some may wonder, “The New Schools also provide complete sutras
and tantras. Why would you say this is the uncommon feature of the
Old School?” Indeed, over three hundred volumes of the Kangyur and
Tengyur existing in today’s Tibet were mainly translated in the period
of the Earlier Translation. There are just a few scriptures that were
translated independently by translators of the New Schools. Therefore,
anyone who practices sutras and tantras in general, the three inner
classes of tantra in particular, and more specifically, the Dzogchen
Atiyoga are referred to as followers of the Old School of Nyingma. This
is the indispensable criterion for determining whether a practitioner
belongs to Nyingma or not.
2.13: Chojé conferring pith instructions
Does your center practice the Nyingma tradition? If yes, please remember this point. This is the most fundamental point, and I repeat
again: It is Nyingmapa more than any other school that possesses
the complete and intact teachings of Sutrayana and Tantrayana. This
is the uncommon and unique feature of the Nyingma School. Other
schools, such as Sakya and Kagyu, only possess Anuttarayoga Tantra
that includes the mother tantras, father tantras, and nondual tantras.
However, the three inner classes of tantra in terms of Mahayoga,
Anuyoga, and Atiyoga are exclusive and specific to the Nyingma
134
School. The Dzogchen Atiyoga teaching that enables practitioners
to achieve buddhahood in the swiftest way is only accessible in the
Nyingma School.
At the beginning, it was these two great masters, Orgyen Padmasambhava and Vimalamitra, who introduced and spread the Dzogchen
teaching in Tibet and established the Nyingma School. In the middle
period, it was Omniscient Longchenpa and the great pandita Rongzompa who carried forward the teaching and propagated it in the
Land of Snows. In the later period, it was Omniscient Ju Mipham
Rinpoche and Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo who made the Nyingma
teaching flourish once again in Tibet. These are the three periods of
the Dzogchen teaching, namely, the period of the earlier propagation,
the middle propagation, and the later propagation.
In the period of the earlier propagation, the Dzogchen teaching taught
by Orgyen Padmasambhava was regarded as “the new Dzogchen” or
“the Terma Dzogchen,” and the teachings given by Vimalamitra were
commonly known as “the old Dzogchen” or “the Kama Dzogchen.”
Thus, there are two types of Nyingtig, the old Vima Nyingtig of
Vimalamitra and the new Khandro Nyingtig of Padmasambhava.
In the period of the middle propagation, Omniscient Longchenpa
provided extensive teachings on the mind’s nature of luminosity based
mainly on the seventeen tantras that belong to the secret category of
pith instructions. The great pandita Rongzompa elaborated on the
view of the mind’s essence of emptiness by following the twenty-one
mother and child tantras that belong to the outer category of mind,
as well as the tantras of the inner category of space that are classified
into the three sections of white, black, and variegated space.
In the period of the later propagation, Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo
transmitted profound instructions to fortunate beings, guiding them
on the path of Dzogchen, and Omniscient Ju Mipham Rinpoche
expounded the vast doctrines on Buddhist philosophy, subduing those
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 135
harboring wrong views in Buddhism and the Nyingma tradition in
particular. If you want to study the Dzogchen teaching that is only
specific to the Nyingma tradition, you must follow the teachings of
these six great masters.
The Pith Instructions on the Actual Practice of Dzogchen
In regard to the actual practice of Dzogchen, generally speaking,
the teachings can be categorized into gyu, lung, and men ngak.
a Gyu
means the tantras, lung the transmission of the tantras, and men ngak
the intimate instruction given by the master known as upadesha. I
assume most of you are advanced Vajrayana practitioners who have
already gained some meditative experience in the actual practice of
pith instructions, so I will focus on the section of upadesha to briefly
talk about this aspect of Dzogchen practice.
There are two paths of training in the section of upadesha, trekchö
and tögal, translated as “cutting through” and “directly crossing over.”
The path of trekchö emphasizes original purity as the ground, cutting
through as the path, and the dissolution of all substance into particles
as the fruition. That brings liberation in a body of light. The path
of tögal emphasizes spontaneous presence as the ground, directly
crossing over as the path, and the achievement of the rainbow body
as the fruition. The path of trekchö can lead idle ones to liberation
because diligent effort is not required, but tögal does demand diligent
effort in order to attain the state of its fruition.
Now, I will speak in brief about the view, meditation, conduct, and
result that correspond to trekchö.
First, for the view, trekchö ascertains that all phenomena of appearance, existence, universe, and beings are fundamentally the illusory
manifestation of the mind and that the mind itself is beyond birth,
a
rgyud, rlung, and man ngag.
136
abiding, and cessation, having the nature of emptiness like open space.
This is the view.
There are two methods to recognize this view: the guidance through
the door of shamatha and the guidance through the door of vipashyana.
In the first case, the view is approached through effort in meditation.
This mainly follows the Kagyu lineage, meaning that one starts with
single-pointed shamatha meditation, makes gradual progress on
the four yogas of Mahamudra, and applies the pith instructions of
stillness, movement, and clear awareness to eventually recognize the
nature of mind. The direct pointing-out instruction of Mahamudra
is the essential teaching in the Kagyu lineage. Generally speaking,
the Kagyu tradition emphasizes the six yogas of Naropa on the path
of skillful means (upaya) and the instructions of Mahamudra on the
path of liberation. Meanwhile, there are many unique and profound
instructions in this tradition, such as special teachings elaborated
by Karma Chakme Rinpoche in his Mountain Dharma,
a which are
necessary for practitioners to study.
2.14: Audience joining palms, listening
attentively
The second is to approach meditation through the view. This mainly
follows the general guidance in the
Nyingma tradition that first enables one to realize the very nature
of mind as unborn, non-abiding,
and unceasing, and then guides
the practitioner to meditate on this
view by applying the skillful methods of settling the mind. Nowadays, most Nyingma masters give
teachings on the nature of mind in this way.
Indeed, many practitioners who follow the Nyingma or Kagyu traditions prefer to combine these two methods in their actual practice
or when instructing others in their practice. To realize the ultimate
a
ri cho (ri chos); Karma Chakme Rinpoche.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 137
view of the two methods, the crucial point is to understand that the
very nature of mind is none other than emptiness. This is what the
Sutrayana teaching refers to as the Great Mother Prajnaparamita. As
a matter of fact, the Great Middle Way, the Great Seal (Mahamudra),
and the Great Perfection (Dzogchen), these three Great’s, share the
same essential view of the unborn nature of mind.
Many great Nyingma scholars ascertained this view from various
aspects, but here I want to quote the teaching from the third Karmapa
Rangjung Dorje. In one of his prayers, the Karmapa said:
The absence of mental engagement is Mahamudra.
The freedom from extremes is the Great Middle Way.
Since, here, all is included, this too is the Great Perfection.
May I acquire the confidence of knowing one and realizing all.
The view of the Great Seal transcends attachment to any phenomenon;
the Great Middle Way goes beyond any extreme, such as existence or
nonexistence; the Great Perfection includes the essential points of the
doctrines of all nine yanas. So, Karmapa Rangjung Dorje aspired to
realize the true nature of mind by relying on these three Great’s.
Second, for meditation, it is through meditative practice that one can go
beyond conceptual or discursive thought and abide without grasping
in the state of realization with awareness of the view. Again, many
great scholars and accomplished masters in the Nyingma tradition
gave detailed teachings in this regard, but I’d like to share Karma
Chakme Rinpoche’s teaching.
He said, “Now, turn inward and observe your own mind; you may
recognize that mind exists nowhere and is the nature of emptiness.
Abide in that state of emptiness and relax at ease. Other than this,
there is no other practice called Mahamudra.” In this teaching, Karma
Chakme Rinpoche brought up the view and meditation of Mahamudra.
When you observe your mind and pay full attention to it, at that very
138
moment you will discover its empty nature, and that is the view. As
you recognize the view clearly and distinctly, you abide in it in a
relaxed manner without forgetting it, and that is meditation. Although
Mahamudra seals all phenomena that encompass both samsara and
nirvana, nothing can seal Mahamudra itself. From this perspective,
you can say that all phenomena in samsara and nirvana are none other
than Mahamudra, and knowing that is the meditation.
2.15: Chojé on the spacious dharma throne
Third, for conduct, no matter what kind of thought arises in the mind,
either good or bad, you need to recognize its essence and nature.
Through that, realization can be enhanced and the level of practice
improved. There are many teachings on this within the tantras and
upadesha instructions of the Nyingma tradition, but nevertheless, I’d
like to share with you what Karma Chakme Rinpoche taught in his
Mountain Dharma.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 139
He taught that when a favorable circumstance in accordance with your
wishes occurs, observe the nature of mind, and that will improve the
practice. When an unfavorable situation occurs, such as illness, death,
or being defamed, observe the nature of mind, and that will greatly
improve your practice. All in all, never forget to practice throughout
all times, such as walking, abiding, sitting, and lying down, so that
you can stabilize realization in daily life. That is called conduct.
Fourth, for the result, this can be posited by following Jetsun Milarepa’s
teaching. Venerable Milarepa said, “Inside I suffer from the sickness
of Dzogchen, and outside I suffer from the sickness of Mahamudra.
Not only do I experience the pain of the two sicknesses, I will even
die because of them.” In this teaching, Milarepa says that recognizing
the unborn nature of mind is the realization of Dzogchen; abiding
in that state of realization without any movement is the practice of
Mahamudra; and the joint practice of both Dzogchen and Mahamudra
not only leads to the elimination of all negative thoughts that are
temporary like sickness, but also makes it easier to swiftly attain the
ultimate state of buddhahood that is expressed metaphorically as
“death,” meaning the death of dualistic thoughts.
So, that is my brief explanation of view, meditation, conduct, and
result concerning the path of trekchö. The upadesha instructions for
actual practice follow the Nyingma tradition, and all the authentic
references I have cited are from the Kagyu tradition. Today is a special
occasion for me to present the teaching in this way.
For myself, I come from a Nyingma center to your Kagyu center; and
from your side, you have been studying and practicing the Kagyu
teachings and now have the chance to follow the uncommon teaching
in the Nyingma tradition for your advanced practices. Given this
auspicious coincidence, I present my teaching by combining the two
traditions together.
140
One more reason for me to present the teaching in this way is that
the Nyingma and Kagyu lineages are so strongly connected to each
other, completely different from the other lineages of attainment. As I
mentioned earlier, the peerless Gampopa was the emanation of Orgyen
Padmasambhava. When the second Karmapa Pakshi, the reincarnation
of the first Karmapa Dusum Khyenpa, was the guru for the Mongol
emperors, he said, “Sometimes I am Padmasambhava, and sometimes
I am the mahasiddha Saraha.” So, he himself admitted clearly that he
was the emanation of Padmasambhava.
Speaking of the third Karmapa Rangjung Dorje, if you want to study
the four collections of the Nyingtig in the Nyingma tradition, you must
rely upon Rangjung Dorje’s words and teachings because he was one
of the gurus of Omniscient Longchenpa. Karma Chakme Rinpoche’s
guru was Mingyur Dorje, the Palyul lineage master and revealer of the
Namchö teachings, and his disciple was Rigdzin Kunzang Sherab, the
first throne-holder of Palyul Monastery. So, we can say Karma Chakme
Rinpoche belongs to both the Nyingma and Kagyu schools. Looking
at all these great lineage masters, it is clear to us that Nyingmapa and
Kagyupa have been closely related throughout history. This is why my
teaching today was based on both traditions.
Now, to continue on, I assume the qualifications that are necessary
for your main practice have been included in the view, meditation,
conduct, and result of the trekchö path. Is that correct?
As for the second path of tögal, the actual practice of directly crossing
over, I will not go into that subject at this time, but I will make the
prayer we will meet again in this life. But if not, may we reunite in the
pure land of Sukhavati; and at that time, I will give you the extensive
teaching on spontaneous presence. In order to create an auspicious
condition to make it happen, I will now conclude here.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 141
Getting Used to Drinking Coffee
During this trip to western countries, Chojé felt comfortable with the local food,
which was quite different from his travels to the Han regions and also in India,
where we had to be more concerned with his meals. This time, we were seldom
worried about how the local hosts would prepare food for him.
As Yidzhin Norbu’s close attendant, my main job included taking care of
his daily activities, such as bringing him medicine, helping him wash and
rinse, doing his laundry, packing up for the next stop, and more importantly,
preparing the audio recording of the text that he was going to teach and dealing
with unexpected situations. There was a long list of things to do every day, and
I was afraid of missing something, so had to pay full attention at all times.
At the time, Khenpo Namdrol took the main responsibility of working with
the local organizers to arrange every event for the tour. He was also extremely
busy, and both of us could only have a short break after Rinpoche and all the
others went to sleep. But still, we needed to finish our daily chanting that could
not be interrupted before going to bed. Khenpo Namdrol would chant Reciting
the Names of Manjushri, and I also had this tantra in my daily chanting along
with many other scriptures.
It was not surprising that we often dozed off and sometimes had a hard time
even opening our eyes. Khenpo Namdrol would ask Ngodrup Dorje to make
coffee for us so that we could be refreshed a little bit. I had never had coffee
before, and the taste was strange for the first few times. Gradually, I started to
get used to it and even began to love it!
Certainly, it was not good to drink coffee before sleep, but since I had to deal
with so many things, drinking coffee really refreshed me and allowed me to
cope with my brief sleep of only three or four hours every day during the trip.
142
The Stage-by-Stage Practice of Milarepa
On June 27th, Yidzhin Norbu gave a teaching revolving around the Kagyu
lineage at the well-known Mile Hi Church in Lakewood, Colorado, for the
Vajradhatu community, as well as many non-Buddhists.
The Tathagata, Arhat, Omniscient One, Perfect in Illumination and
Conduct, Knower of the World, Supreme Tamer of Men, Teacher of
Devas and Humans, Bhagavat, Buddha Dharmakirtis Agara,a
to you, I
pay homage! To you, I make offerings! In you, I take refuge!
Relying on the four great aspirations made by
Buddha Dharmakirtis Agara in the past,
May his boundless wisdom, compassion, and power grant blessings
So I and all sentient beings may enjoy his fruition.
Now, having supplicated and praised my deity to whom I have strong
devotion, in order for the noble dharma to enter into your mind
streams, I have chanted the full name of Buddha Dharmakirtis Agara
seven times.
Today my teaching is about the essential points of dharma practice.
The reason for sharing this topic is that I am hoping to help the novice
Buddhists know more about Buddhism and how it developed and to
also remind the senior Buddhists how to enhance and improve their
actual practice. Also, for those following other religious traditions or
having no religious beliefs, I am hoping through my teaching today,
that they can gain a clear idea of what Buddhism is essentially about
and then give careful consideration on whether it is worthwhile for
them to enter Buddhism. If an individual deliberately decides to follow
Buddhism, then this person will be able to advance along the dharma
path gradually and stably.
a Chomden Chödrak Gyatso’i Yang (bchom ldan chos bsgrags rgya mthso’i dbyangs); one of the eight
medicine buddhas.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 143
Introduction of the Kagyu Lineage Masters
I will first talk about the transmission of the Buddhadharma. Our
root teacher Buddha Shakyamuni, possessor of all omniscient skillful
means, caring for us with great compassion and loving kindness,
aroused the supreme bodhicitta long ago. He accumulated immense
amounts of merit for three countless eons and finally demonstrated
the realization of fully enlightened buddhahood in Bodh Gaya, India.
Then, before the supreme sentient beings endowed with the uncommon powers, the Buddha appeared as Vajradhara and preached the
extensive doctrines of Secret Mantra in many places, such as the highest
pure realm of Akanishtha.
Where are these teachings flourishing today? In our human world, the
Buddhadharma originated from Bodh Gaya, like the rising sun, and
then gradually illuminated the entire land of India. Later, as prophesied
by the Buddha himself, the Buddhadharma was propagated in the
Snow Land of Tibet and has been thriving up to the present time. In
Tibetan Buddhism, there are the eight great lineages of attainment and
ten great lineages of study, and many of these dharma transmissions
still remain active in today’s world.
Among the eight great lineages of attainment, the first one that thrived
in Tibet is the Earlier Translation School of Ngagyur Nyingma, represented by Orgyen Dorje Chang or Padmasambhava, Vimalamitra, and
other great masters. A few centuries later, an extraordinary person
in the place called Lhodrak generated a firm thought that a more
complete system of dharma teaching would be necessary in order to
greatly benefit the followers of the New Schools. This man was the
well-known translator Marpa Lotsawa. In order to seek the dharma,
he journeyed to India three times, experiencing all kinds of hardship.
On his third journey, he encountered the peerless and most Venerable
Atisha, who was on his way to Tibet.
144
While in India, Marpa Lotsawa undertook an exhaustive search for
his guru and finally succeeded in finding Naropa, the well-known
pandita guarding the North Gate of Nalanda University. Naropa was
a chief disciple of the mahasiddha Tilopa, who was directly guided by
Vajradhara in person. Marpa visited Naropa many times and received
a series of instructions from his guru. He also relied on many other
great accomplished teachers, including Maitripa. He brought all these
teachings back to Tibet, and as a result, the doctrines of Secret Mantra
in the New Schools began to thrive in the Land of Tibet.
Before Marpa was about to leave his guru Naropa, the guru gave him
the empowerment of Hevajra. At that time, Naropa manifested the
mandala of Hevajra with all the deities bright and vivid in the sky,
while he just remained seated and asked Marpa, “Will you prostrate
to me first or to the yidam first?” Marpa thought to himself, “I have
received many teachings from the lama, and today I want to receive
the teaching directly from the yidam.” So, he told his teacher, “I’d like
to prostrate to the yidam.” As soon as he finished his words, all the
deities melted into light and dissolved into the guru’s heart center.
Then, Marpa reflected, “It seems like I’ve made a mistake. All deities
are indeed the manifestation of the guru, and other than the guru,
there are no other yidams to supplicate. Therefore, it is the guru
whom I should serve and respect, and sadly, just now I’ve forgotten
this. Since I always consider the guru greater than the yidam and
keep visualizing the guru above my head whenever meditating on the
yidam, I probably did not destroy the auspicious interdependence too
badly, I pray.”
Naropa knew what Marpa was thinking, and through his miraculous
power, he gave him a prophecy, saying, “Since you chose the yidam
instead of me, this damages the interdependent circumstances; yet
given that you see the guru as the main deity in your daily practice,
this indicates that your dharma lineage will spread far and wide, like
the rising sun shining across the whole world.”
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 145
Marpa asked his guru solemnly, “I have seven sons of my own blood,
headed by Tarma Dode.Would you have any means by which my family
lineage will never discontinue so that my descendants would also be
able to propagate the dharma?” Unfortunately, Naropa responded,
“The auspicious interdependence has been destroyed, and I cannot
restore it.”
If Marpa had created an auspicious interdependence, his family descendants would for sure have taken a more essential role than his
lineage disciples in carrying through and propagating his teaching,
and the Kagyu lineage would have prospered many hundreds and
thousands of times more so than today’s situation. Therefore, it is
crucial to view the teacher as the principal source of siddhi and that
the deity is inseparable with the guru to whom one always shows
deep faith, devotion, respect, and joy.
At that time, Marpa asked his guru one more question, “Who will
inherit and propagate my dharma lineage?”
Naropa asked him, “Who is your dearest disciple that you think most
highly of?”
Marpa reported, “It must be my disciple Awo Thuchen, or Thopaga
(Milarepa). I treat him as the one more important than my heart.”
Hearing this, Naropa joined his palms together and spoke a verse of
praise:
Like the sun shining on the snow mountain,
In the northern land, in a place of darkness,
There is one called Mila Thopaga.
To this venerable one, I prostrate.
Upon finishing this verse, he paid homage in the direction of the Land
of Tibet. At that time, the mountain and trees also paid homage together
with the great master. This happened at Odantapuri University situated
146
at Hiranya Prabhat Parvat Mountain, not far from Nalanda University.
Naropa lived there at that time, and these days if you go to visit that
place, you will notice that the mountain and trees still bend slightly
down toward the Land of Tibet.
Later, on another occasion, Marpa Lotsawa told Milarepa, “You need
to make an observation of your dreams to have a clear idea of how
your dharma lineage will be propagated.”
That evening, Milarepa dreamed of four pillars in the four directions,
and in particular, on the top of the northern pillar, there was an eagle.
That eagle gave birth to a baby eagle, and then numerous baby eagles
filled the sky.
Marpa explained to him, “The four pillars in your dream predict that
I will have four great disciples who are Meton Tsonpo of Tsangrong,
Tsurton Wangnge of Tolpo, Ngokton Chodor of Shung, and you
Milarepa of Kungthang. The eagle on the northern pillar symbolizes
you, and the baby eagle it gave birth to symbolizes your sun-like
disciple Gampopa, the Da-od Shonnu, or Chandraprabha. The flock
of eagles filling the sky symbolizes the lineage disciples of Gampopa,
who will spread the Kagyu teaching throughout the world.”
Exactly as Marpa Lotsawa predicted by explaining Milarepa’s dream,
in the time of Gampopa, his most outstanding disciples were the
first Karmapa Dusum Khyenpa and the Protector of Migrating Beings,
Phagmo Drupa, who were born in the same year. Their lineage disciples
formed the four major schools of the Dakpo Kagyu, which are Barom
Kagyu, Pagdru Kagyu, Karma Kagyu, and Tsalpa Kagyu. The Pagdru
Kagyu School later splintered into eight sub-schools, i.e., Drikung
Kagyu, Drukpa Kagyu, Taklung Kagyu, Yazang Kagyu, Trophu Kagyu,
Shugseb Kagyu, Yelpa Kagyu, and Martsang Kagyu. As such, the
dharma teaching of the Kagyu tradition spread across the world.
If just focusing on the Drukpa Kagyu and thinking about its propagation, people would all agree that these teachings reached even
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 147
farther than where an eagle could arrive after flying eighteen days
in the same direction. Later, the spreading of the lineages of the
red crown Karmapa and the black crown Karmapa was much more
widespread. According to the historical record, in the pure vision of the
first Karmapa, one hundred thousand dakinis manifested their hair as
a black crown and offered it to him as a symbol of his accomplishment.
Later, the Mongol emperor in the Yuan Dynasty offered a physical
replica of that crown to the fifth Karmapa, which has been passed
down to the current Karmapa. The red crown was offered by the
Chinese emperor to the first Shamarpa, Drakpa Senge, as a replica
of Karmapa’s black crown. Also, the Tibetan legend says that once
in Rati Bum Dzong of the Minyak region, there were one hundred
thousand monks from the Kagyu School who were able to fly at the
same time. As such, the lineage masters of the Kagyu School were
like well-ordered gold mountains that appeared in the world one after
another up until today, when the sixteenth Karmapa and your own
guru Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche came and enlightened the modern
world.
The above is just a very brief introduction of the main lineage masters
of Kagyu. If I were to talk about them in more detail, the recounting
of the life stories of each of them alone could not be finished in a few
months.
Now, I will talk about the instructions of actual practice transmitted
by the Kagyu lineage masters. There are three main transmissions: 1)
the uncommon Secret Mantra practice that leads to the attainment
of vajradharahood transmitted from the mahasiddha Tilopa; 2) the
joint practice of Sutrayana and Mantrayana transmitted from Lhodrak Marpa Lotsawa, in which the Sutrayana practice refers to sutra
Mahamudra or Mahamudra of reality and the Mantrayana practice
refers to mantra Mahamudra or Mahamudra of the union of bliss and
emptiness; and 3) the stage-by-stage practice transmitted from Jetsun
Milarepa that starts with the beginning practices of abandoning all
148
non-virtue, continues with the practice of tummo (wisdom mystic
heat) and the magical body, and the essence of Mahamudra that will
be realized as a result of stabilizing the preceding practices. In this
way, the Vajrayana practice of Secret Mantra will reach the fruition of
vajradharahood in a single life.
Now I will primarily draw from the transmission of Milarepa because
it is an easy path that includes all stages of practice that can be carried
out by anyone of either greater or lesser capacity. To follow this path,
the disciple must first understand the very nature of suffering in cyclic
existence that involves birth and death and thus generate the mind of
renunciation. Secondly, you need to cherish others more than yourself
and thus generate the awakened mind of bodhicitta for the benefit of
all living beings. Thirdly, you need to cultivate and meditate on the
pure view that is none other than the mind transmission of Vajradhara
and thus achieve the fruition of buddhahood.
The Actual Practice of the Basic Vehicle
So, how can you first cultivate the mind of renunciation?
You should contemplate as follows, “It is truly rare to obtain such a
precious human body that can be used for dharma practice; therefore,
since I have attained this precious body, I must make full use of it to
practice the pure dharma.” Like this, you make the firmly determined
vow and then continue to contemplate, “Although I have obtained the
precious human body with all freedoms and endowments, it does not
last forever and is fragile and unstable. After one hundred years or so,
all humans present in the world will surely die without anyone left
behind. I must recognize the undeniable fact of death and exert myself
in dharma practice. My death is unavoidable; what is even worse is
that I don’t know when it will come. This is another point I must bear
in mind.”
For all of us present here, none of us can guarantee that we will stay
well and alive in this world until next year and that none of us will die.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 149
We never know what will come first, our next life or next year. Not just
next year, we cannot even be sure we will not die next month. Since
the arrival of the Lord of Death is unknown, you must spend all your
time and energy practicing the dharma.
When death befalls, nothing is helpful except the noble dharma. Think
about this, “Would high social status be helpful upon death?” Even a
king who rules the whole world can only head alone to an unknown
world after death without the power to take any assistant with him.
Would great wealth be helpful upon death? Even a person who
possesses the wealth of an entire country can only enter alone into his
next life without taking anything with him, not even a mouthful of
food or a patch of clothing. Do you think that fame will be helpful
at the time of death? Even a world-famous person can only wander
helplessly into a completely strange world without any privileges.
Deeply reflecting on all these situations, you are urged to practice the
dharma without further delay. Otherwise, when you finally remember
the dharma and try to practice after having idled away most of your
life, then it will be too late.
It should be clear that death is not the extinction of everything, like a
fire being extinguished or water evaporating. Rather, both good and
bad karma will accompany you to the next life. It should never be
thought that nothing exists after death. I will share with you a few
stories from the past. There used to be a learned non-Buddhist scholar
who debated with the influential Buddhist philosopher Dharmakirti
his whole life, but never won. In his next life, he became a debater at
the age of eighteen and went to debate with Dharmakirti again, but
still failed. Then, in the following life he became a debater one more
time at the age of seven and later started to debate with Dharmakirti,
unsurprisingly failing again. Eventually, he took refuge in Buddhism.
So, in the non-Buddhist religions, many of them admit the existence of
past and future lives, and there are many people who can recall their
past lives.
150
There are similar stories in Buddhism. Chandragomin was a famous
Buddhist scholar born in the south of India. His previous life was
as a Buddhist pandita who had fierce debates with a non-Buddhist
scholar. This non-Buddhist scholar denied the existence of past and
future lives, but Chandragomin in his previous life could not defeat
him and change his mind. As a result, this Buddhist pandita decided
to prove the existence of reincarnation through his death, saying,
“I will show you the existence of future life. Now I’m going to die;
please preserve my dead body in the coffin with well-prepared holy
medicine.” He then held a pearl in his mouth and made the vow, “After
my reincarnation, may I master all the knowledge I have learned in this
life, and if you see someone who is born with this pearl in his mouth,
that person is my reincarnation.” After these words, the pandita died.
Because of the vow he had made, Chandragomin was born with a
pearl in his mouth, and meanwhile, the pearl preserved in the coffin
was gone. Seeing this, the non-Buddhist scholar started to consider
the true existence of past and future lives and asked Chandragomin
to clarify his doubts by explaining to him the Buddhist philosophy.
In that life, Chandragomin was even more brilliant at understanding
the dharma and had no obscurations at all. So, he was able to offer a
perfect answer to the non-Buddhist scholar who eventually accepted
the existence of reincarnation, as well as the infallible teaching of
Buddhism. Consequently, he followed Chandragomin, and he himself
also rose to the status of a great pandita in Buddhism.
Now, I’ll talk about the history related to your Kagyu lineage, such as
the reincarnations of the Karmapas. The first Karmapa was Dusum
Khyenpa, the second Pakshi, the third Rangjung Dorje, up to the
present sixteenth Karmapa Rangjung Rigpe Dorje. Every Karmapa
was clearly predicted in many texts, such as Gathering of the Wisdom
Intent,
a
including their life spans. Also, the first Karmapa prophesied
the parents and other details concerning the second Karmapa, and this
tradition has continued with every reincarnation up to the sixteenth,
a
lama gongdu (bla ma dgongs ’dus); revealed by Sangye Lingpa.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 151
Rigpe Dorje. All of this gives strong evidence of the existence of
past and future lives, and the above is some historical information
that proves the existence of reincarnation. Certainly, there is logical
inference to establish this truth, which is well expounded in many
Buddhist scriptures. But I don’t have time to discuss this part.
The view concerning reincarnation, karmic cause and result, involves
knowing the fundamental teachings in Buddhism that can never be
neglected or forsaken. Generally speaking, many people in the modern
world hold doubts toward the law of karma, as well as the existence
of past and future lives. Every one of you present here must deeply
reflect on these essential teachings. For instance, when reflecting on
the reincarnation of the Karmapas, this really helps us to establish
the existence of past and future lives. If there were no reincarnations,
then there would be no next Karmapa appearing in this world as
predicted by the previous one, and the present Karmapa would have
no way to recall his previous life, not to mention discussing the conduct and dharma activities performed by the previous reincarnation.
Every Karmapa can clearly recall his previous life, just as though this
happened yesterday. This is irrefutable evidence of reincarnation.
Also, due to the infallible law of cause and effect, engagement with
wholesome deeds brings peace and happiness, while unwholesome
deeds cause rebirth in an inferior circumstance. If you fall into the three
lower realms due to the force of your negative karma, the suffering
experienced there is unimaginable compared with any kind of suffering
in this human world. It is long-lasting, unendurable, and of various
kinds. Therefore, be vigilant in avoiding any negative deeds.
On the other hand, if you cultivate an abundance of virtue, it is certain
that you can take rebirth in a pure realm such as Sukhavati. The pure
land is unimaginable in terms of qualities that cannot be compared
with anything in the human world. Therefore, you must be diligent
in cultivating virtue in order to attain the inconceivable peace and
happiness that comes from rebirth in a pure realm.
152
What are the non-virtues to be abandoned, and what are the virtues to
be cultivated? Any action that causes harm to other sentient beings
is non-virtuous, such as killing, stealing, lying or deceiving others,
and slandering or sowing discord among others. All such negative
deeds need to be forsaken from the root. The opposite is to engage in
actions that do not harm others by observing mindfulness through
body, speech, and mind.
This initial stage can be exemplified by how Jetsun Milarepa embarked
on his dharma path. At first, his uncle, aunt, and other relatives
mistreated him and developed hatred toward him. Based on this,
gradually he came to understand that everything in samsara was
unreliable and without true existence. In this way, he determined
to rid himself of all negative deeds, including the least insignificant
non-virtues, and started his journey of practicing only virtue.
The Actual Mahayana Practice of Sutras
The fundamental practice of Mahayana is to first take the refuge vows
with the determination that even at the cost of your own life, the
Three Jewels of refuge will never be forsaken. Along with that, you
should follow the bodhisattva path by considering the welfare of all
sentient beings and cultivating the attitude and conduct that cherishes
others more than yourself. How do you do that? There is a famous
instruction on mind training in Tibetan Buddhism that says, “May I
take upon myself all defeat and offer to others all glory.” This indicates
that in your spiritual practice, you must strive for others’ attainment
of benefit, success, happiness, and joy, helping them to enjoy all that
is positive and good, while readily taking upon yourself all kinds of
suffering and misfortune. It is certain that as beginners you cannot
accomplish this goal one hundred percent. Nevertheless, you can train
yourself in this practice progressively.
What is progressive training? First, you need to cultivate the attitude
that treats yourself and others equally. This is called making yourself
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 153
equal to others. Just like you wish for happiness, all beings equally
wish for happiness; and just like you do not want to suffer, all beings
equally do not want to suffer. In this regard, there’s no difference
between others and you. Therefore, you should treat others the same
as yourself, trying your best to bring them happiness and free them
from suffering. Like this, you develop loving kindness and compassion
toward others.
2.16: The happy Chojé
Second, cultivate the attitude that considers others to be more important than yourself. I will give you an example of this practice. If you
were to treat a person who has no blood relation to you kinder than
your own son and if he still considers you as an enemy and imposes
harm on you, then even though you are being treated unfairly and
poorly, you would hold no grudge against him. Rather than reacting,
you would take care of him with even more love, like a mother deeply
loves her only son who unfortunately suffers from a mental disorder.
No matter how the son hurts her, the mother would only be concerned
when the son might recover from illness, without harboring any anger
154
or hatred toward his difficult behavior. Like this, you must learn how
to develop an altruistic mind toward those who harm you.
For instance, a person who is not actually related to you may scold
you with all sorts of harsh words in front of hundreds or thousands
of people. Without having any sense of retaliation for this disrespect
and rudeness, you would show this person your loving care because
you are considering that anyone who directly points out your faults
should be respected as a spiritual guide!
Perhaps you have brought no harm to a person, but without any reason,
this person beats you or even beheads you. Still, you do not hate him at
all, only wishing him to attain happiness and to be free from suffering.
This is how you should develop an altruistic and compassionate mind
toward all sentient beings.
This was exactly how Jetsun Milarepa treated his relatives who had
been his enemies. After he relied upon Marpa Lotsawa and aroused the
genuine bodhicitta in his mind, Milarepa showed great compassion to
his aunt and other relatives who used to treat him like enemies, taught
them the noble dharma, gave them instructions for actual practice,
and eventually guided them onto the noble path.
Therefore, for each of you present here, please give deep consideration
to this principal point of the Buddhist teaching. As I have mentioned
earlier, my intention for giving this teaching is to inspire both Buddhists
and non-Buddhists. I wish some of you who have yet to begin the
practice of dharma may find a way to begin and those who have
started may strengthen your practice. Also, I wish that by hearing
my teaching, the non-Buddhists can give rise to a joyful mind toward
the Buddhadharma. Everyone is willing to befriend those who are
altruistic and take delight in helping others, and everyone will dislike
those who harbor hatred and harmful intentions toward others. The
very essence of the Buddhadharma is to settle the mind on the truly
peaceful and harmless path through mind training. Without anger in
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 155
your mind, you would not intend to harm others either physically or
verbally but would be more than happy to help others with all efforts.
The key point of all 84,000 dharma teachings is none other than the
training of the mind in this way. Therefore, if you think deeply and
understand the true meaning of this, it would then be impossible to
remain unhappy or indifferent toward the Buddhadharma.
There is another example I’d like to share with you. There used to be
a non-Buddhist scholar who followed Maheshvara and later turned
to Buddhism. In one of his works, he was known to have said that
the more one understands the non-Buddhist philosophies, the deeper
devotion and joy is generated in the Buddhist doctrine. This is quite
true. For instance, some heretics claim that killing people is a virtuous
act, and particularly, when at war killing many enemies on a battlefield
is victorious and worthy of praise. The Buddha preached that killing
is non-virtuous no matter what. If you do something harmful to other
beings, you will have to undergo the suffering corresponding to your
harmful action. The result of harming others only brings pain and
suffering, and besides that, there is no benefit.
Also, some heretics claim that it is a virtuous act to commit adultery
and destroy another person’s family. The Buddha preached that this
is always non-virtuous. Obviously, it is impossible to imagine that
such behavior is positive because it only brings disharmony and hurts
others. Only conduct that brings harmony to others both mentally and
physically is considered virtuous.
Again, some heretics claim that speaking lies in order to attract hundreds of thousands of people to follow a certain path is virtuous, while
the Buddha taught that speaking only truthful and honest words is
virtuous. I do believe what the Buddha said, and lying can hardly be a
wholesome act.
Our root teacher Buddha Shakyamuni was the only great spiritual
guide who spoke of things as they are and spoke what is true with
156
his great love and compassion. All the prophecies that the Buddha
made throughout history have come to pass without any deception
at all. The Buddha was straightforward and always said that if your
practice is carried out in a particular way, that will be the direction of
the result. He also said that if you study and practice the profound
instructions, then results will occur after a certain period of time. All
of these statements have been proven to be the truth.
Concerning the Tibetan people in the Land of Snows, although this is a
small population in a remote and backward region, people born in this
place have been following and practicing the Buddha’s teaching, and
consequently, many of them have achieved enlightenment. Currently,
there are more than five billion people in this world, while the Tibetan
population is only around six million. But if you consider the ratio of
accomplished spiritual practitioners among Tibetans, any other ethnic
groups cannot compare with it. If you don’t believe this, you may take
a trip to the Land of Tibet and have a close observation of our people
there; then you will understand what I am saying.
There are many lineages and schools in Tibetan Buddhism, and here I
have just briefly mentioned the Kagyu lineage. If you cannot travel to the
entire Tibetan region, you must at least go to Ngari, to the small place
where Milarepa stayed. By virtue of his spiritual accomplishments,
this great yogi could not be drowned by water nor burned by fire. He
could move through rocks and mountains without any obscuration
and could fly freely in the sky like a bird. In a number of historical
holy sites, Milarepa left tangible signs of his remarkable achievements.
Today, you can still make pilgrimage to these places.
If you think about it, many behaviors and activities of Jetsun Milarepa
are quite rare in other religious traditions and nations. I am not
fabricating anything. There may be some inconsistency between my
narrative and other accounts. This is only because I am not familiar
with certain details, but I don’t have any intention to deceive you. I
truly wish all of you can delve deeply into Buddhism. By doing so,
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 157
I believe anyone who hasn’t entered into Buddhism would find it
impossible to refuse the Buddha’s teaching.
The Guidance of the Mahayana Practice of Secret Mantra
For the final part of my teaching, I will mention the cultivation of
pure view, which is to directly practice what Buddha Shakyamuni or
Vajradhara realized. This is the skillful practice of Vajrayana, which
has many different methods to accomplish, such as shamatha or
vipashyana meditation. This is exactly the uncommon practice of
Jetsun Milarepa that led him to attain the ultimate enlightenment.
Such Vajrayana practice of Secret Mantra cannot be openly explained
to everyone but must be limited to fewer people who possess the
required capacity. As your guru explained before, the Vajrayana practice is supreme and wondrous; however, in order to approach it and
eventually reach the highest state of realization, you must start with
the very basic practice. This follows the progressive training system
in Buddhism. Except for a few, not everybody can directly engage
in the practice of Secret Mantra without any fundamental training. I
myself truly rejoice in this traditional way, and if you have any question
regarding the stage-by-stage practice, we may have more discussions
in the next couple of days. So, please come and attend the teachings as
scheduled.
For the non-Buddhists present here, you may think, “Why is the
teaching of Secret Mantra kept secret? Is it because this tradition has
some faults that cannot be divulged?” Certainly, there are no faults,
but on the contrary, the essential points of Mantrayana are far more
supreme than both Hinayana and Mahayana vehicles. The teaching of
Secret Mantra will inspire all the faithful who are able to connect on
this level. Because of this, most great lamas in the Land of Tibet, His
Holiness the sixteenth Karmapa, and his four regents, as well as His
Holiness Penor Rinpoche in India, all try their best to propagate this
ultimate and unparalleled teaching.
158
Then, some may ask, “Why is it necessary to make it secret since it can
inspire in this way?”
Indeed, as Buddhist scriptures state, “The teaching of Secret Mantra
needs to be kept hidden not because it has any fault, but because practicing it secretly leads one to achieve accomplishment.” The Vajrayana
teaching doesn’t have any minor or major fault, but by keeping this
practice secret or private, this will enable a practitioner to swiftly attain
the fruition of enlightenment.
Again, some may wonder, “Why does keeping it secret ensure the
swift accomplishment?”
Just as with Tibetan medicine, if the doctor exposes its ingredients or
formula to his or her patient beforehand, the medicine may lose its
potency to function. If this information is unknown to the patient, it
will produce an immediate effect. The same is true in the case of the
Secret Mantrayana teaching. It is exactly due to this reason that we are
obliged to keep the teaching inaccessible to the public.
For most of you, I truly wish you can follow a gradual path to complete
all the necessary stages in your dharma practice, and Jetsun Milarepa
is such a perfect example in this regard. In the past, the Buddhadharma originated and flourished in India. Now, as the Buddha himself
prophesied, all the fundamental and essential dharma teachings have
been well-preserved in the Snow Land of Tibet, where the continuity
of the complete transmissions has remained unbroken until now.
Therefore, it is beneficial for you to sincerely respect and cultivate
devotion toward those Tibetan lamas who are endowed with great
compassion and possess the transmissions of these precious dharma
teachings. It does not matter which teacher you follow; as long as he
or she is qualified to give you the dharma teaching, you will benefit.
They will definitely bring you no harm, but only benefit.
If you think of these great masters in the US, they have expounded
the dharma teaching and bestowed upon you precious instructions
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 159
of actual practice, all of which bring you tremendous benefit and
happiness. This is obvious to every one of you. Therefore, when you
have opportunities to serve them, for instance, when they come to
your area, you should truly show your respect and devotion and
do whatever you can to meet their needs. Your Trungpa Rinpoche
shared the same dharma lineage with us. If he had not come to this
country, although there are also Tibetans living here, it would not be so
beneficial to both you and others because these Tibetans are not experts
at the dharma and even worse, they themselves have created much
negative karma through their thoughts and behaviors. Conversely,
your master came and transmitted the dharma to numerous people,
establishing this center of Karma Dzong and also over one hundred
dharma centers worldwide. This great kindness to you westerners will
definitely grant you happiness and ease in this and future lives.
Someone like me can hardly bring you great benefit because I am
already very old and also seriously ill. Other than this tour, I do not
think I can come to the US for a second time. So, I cannot help you
too much. However, there are already many masters living in this
country, which is certainly a result of your own merit. Therefore, each
of you should devotedly serve them and put their teachings into your
practice. Not only me, most Tibetan lamas have difficulty traveling
to the US all the way from the Tibetan regions in China, because it
requires many favorable conditions and assistance for a Tibetan to
travel abroad from China.
Meanwhile, I hope you venerate those lamas who have left the Land of
Tibet and now live in India and elsewhere, because they also have close
connections with you. There is no need to mention all the teachers of
the Kagyu lineage in India since you follow the same tradition with
them. Currently, we have Gyalwa Rinpoche as our spiritual leader in
Buddhism. He is the true incarnation of Avalokiteshvara, the noble
lord of the world. If you have the opportunity to see him and listen to
him in person, please do not hesitate to do so. Any connection with
160
him has significant meaning to you because it brings you vast benefits
and results.
Also, I have learned that His Holiness Penor Rinpoche plans to return
to the US next year. He now lives in the south of India and has
been recognized as the supreme head of the Nyingma lineage. I
myself am just a negligible teacher in his dharma lineage, while
Penor Rinpoche presides over hundreds of monasteries in the Land
of Tibet and has educated a great number of monastics in India, who
can be seen everywhere in this world wearing the monastic robes.
Such an astonishing guru is very rare in this day and age. Speaking
of his personality, he is a compassionate teacher who solely helps
sentient beings and never harms anyone, not even in the slightest.
Regarding his religious role, he is able to maintain peace and harmony
among all religious traditions in the world, and especially provide
any possible support and service to all different Buddhist schools,
including Nyingma, Kagyu, Sakya, and Gelug. Since he dedicates
himself to the promotion of Buddhism as a whole and spends all his
effort on this cause, he has been appointed as the supreme head of the
Nyingma lineage by Gyalwa Rinpoche, as well as many other great
masters. Although he mainly follows the Nyingma tradition, he treats
all other Buddhist traditions and schools equally and gives them the
same care and respect. If such a remarkable lama comes to your area
in the future, you must request him to turn the wheel of dharma with
your deepest devotion and veneration. Establishing an auspicious
connection with him will bring you inconceivably great benefit.
These gurus living in the US nowadays all come from the same place
as me, so I am quite familiar with them. As far as I know, they solely
follow the Buddha’s teaching and wholeheartedly work for the wellbeing of others. There is no way for them to do anything harmful to
any being. If you can follow their guidance and put their teaching into
your practice properly, I will be truly happy for you.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 161
All in all, I wish that whatever you think and whatever you do becomes
the cause of sentient beings’ happiness and benefit, and in particular,
may you give rise to a kind and gentle heart. Tashi Delek!
In the last part as Yidzhin Norbu was explaining the practice of Secret
Mantra, he didn’t give the actual instructions of Mahamudra or Dzogchen. He
only emphasized that one should observe the tantric vows of pure view and,
based on that, rely upon the qualified masters in the US who had attained
a certain level of accomplishment and were experienced in these Vajrayana
practices. In other words, the students should seek these precious teachings
from their local lamas whom they can rely on in the long term. It is because the
Vajrayana practice requires a practitioner to follow a qualified guru for a long
time, and without the personal guidance from a close teacher, some typically
uncommon practices cannot be successful. This is why Rinpoche just pointed
the listeners in the right direction, while not providing them with the detailed
instructions of Secret Mantra.
Awakened My Life
A few years ago, when I was giving talks in the US, I met an American Buddhist
named Lea Groth, who in her youth had attended the lecture that Jigme
Phuntsok Rinpoche gave at Mile Hi Church in Lakewood, Colorado, during his
1993 trip to the US. At that time, she was just a young and confused girl. But
it was from that day on, as she recounted, that her life underwent incredible
transformation.
Lea Groth described her experience with the following words:
I met Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche when I was thirteen years old. At that time,
I was a little moody and more interested in hiding than being friendly
to others. I had been raised as a Tibetan Buddhist by my Euro-American
162
parents, who were most active members of a Tibetan Buddhist group.
For about a decade, this group invited all different Nyingma teachers to
come and stay, and we received a real wealth of different teachings and
styles. Since I had no siblings to distract me and no other family in the
area to take care of me, I was the only one of us second generations in the
group who regularly attended anything at the center.
It was already dark when we arrived at an odd-shaped church about
thirty minutes from our house. The building was not terribly inviting,
and inside was surprisingly atypical. It was hard to believe we were in a
church. There were no crosses or dangling sons of God anywhere.
I am fairly critical by nature, and that day I entered that auditorium
grumpy and skeptical. I don’t remember well how it all got started, but
I remember there were a lot of people on stage, and at first, I was not
even sure which one was the important person we had driven all this
way in the dusk to see. It was not a very typical Tibetan thing though,
that I do remember. I was used to gold and brocade and implements and
chanting, but this was very simple. I believe the main speaker was sitting
in an armchair, and the others were in normal chairs. It was not terribly
impressive until the main speaker started talking.
His voice was deep and resonating. It seemed to enter me and make
profound sense to me, even though at the level of vocabulary I understood
nothing. Honestly, I am not sure the words really mattered that much;
the impact was all I needed.
At first, I will admit it, I was bored; but I am not someone who is ever
bored for long, so I studied all those people on stage. In particular, I
studied the older Tibetan man who was talking. I remember that he was
looking at me, too, but I cannot be sure if that was my self-absorption
or a false memory. Still, slowly, without being fully aware of the change,
something opened in me, and a deep understanding arose. The carpet
and walls and chairs in their mustard yellow and white became hollow,
transparent, seemingly unreal. The swirls of emotion-ridden thoughts
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 163
subsided. My hormone-stressed teenage brain was temporarily pacified,
dare I say, even silenced.
Ironically, I came out of that church more a Buddhist and less a seeker,
more certain and much less confused. While I forgot the teaching and
even the name of this great teacher for a long time, I never forgot the place
and the change that had taken place in me. It was as if he had sealed me
on my path. Not many months after that, I started attending teachings
with my parents for real, that is to say with the volition and excitement of
a real student, and no longer as the child forced to follow along.
Multiple times over the decades that followed, I thought of that yellow
auditorium in that strange church. The memory tugged at me. I asked
my mom multiple times, “Who was that teacher? Where was that place?”
She remembered it all only vaguely, and she was never great with
remembering Tibetan names, so it remained a mystery.
Then, as karma would have it, through my editing work, I became
connected with Larung Gar. It is with deep gratitude and devotion to
the great Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche for taking my mind and
returning me to my true refuge, the Buddhadharma, in the yellow light
of that extraterrestrial church.
What happened to Lea Groth is a strong expression of the inconceivable
blessings of Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche. What’s extraordinary about highly
realized beings like Yidzhin Norbu is that they cannot only tame the minds of
sentient beings by giving dharma teachings but can also transform their minds
tremendously simply by their presence, their voice, or their eye contact, for
example. On that account, if parents take their children to meet a noble teacher
of high quality or to attend a dharma assembly, through the blessings of these
occasions, children of deep virtuous root may be able to start a new page in
their lives and embark on the path that reverses the cycle of samsara.
164
A Brief Introduction of Shambhala
On June 28th, H.H. Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche returned to Karma Dzong to
deliver additional teachings. In his talk, he explained the history and origin
of the kingdom of Shambhala, as well as the auspicious connection between
Shambhala and the Vajradhatu community.
I came all the way from the Snow Land of Tibet to the US. I find myself
now in a place that can be called the second land of Shambhala. In fact,
the actual kingdom of Shambhala is one of the five great sacred places
according to the Buddhist doctrines. These five sacred places are: 1)
Bodh Gaya, the sacred place located at the center of this world where
all buddhas of the three times will attain full awakening; 2) Mount
Wutai, the Five-Peaked Mountain in China, the sacred place of the
east where Lord Manjushri now dwells; 3) Mount Potala, the sacred
place of the south where noble Avalokiteshvara actually resides; 4)
Copper-Colored Mountain or Oddiyana, the sacred place of the west,
the Land of Dakinis, where Guru Padmasambhava abides; and 5)
Shambhala, the sacred place of the north.
Where is Shambhala? It is located in a place that requires an individual
who wishes to arrive there to travel for twelve years, and they must
possess powers to travel anywhere at will. Many noble beings in the
past have been there, one example being the great Indian Pandita
Chilupa, who received the Kalachakra teachings during his visit. The
shape of the realm of Shambhala resembles an eight-petaled lotus.
How is such a shape formed? At the center of the lotus is the capital
city Kalapa, surrounded by nine hundred sixty million smaller cities
that form the shape of eight petals. All rivers of the kingdom wind
their way through the land and flow into the river of the capital city,
Kalapa.
Shambhala will be ruled by a line of thirty-two kings, consisting
of seven Dharmarajas and twenty-five Kalkin Kings, with Kalkin
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 165
meaning “Holder of the Castes.” The first of the seven Dharmarajas of
Shambhala was King Suchandra or Dawa Sangpo in Tibetan. He was
with one of the first groups of disciples who received the Kalachakra
teachings from Buddha Shakyamuni that took place at the great stupa
of Shri Dhanyakataka in southern India, not long before the Buddha’s
passing into parinirvana. King Suchandra compiled the Kalachakra
teachings that were retained in his memory in a textual form of twelve
thousand verses, well-known as the glorious Root Kalachakra Tantra,
or Shri Kalachakra in Sanskrit. Dawa Sangpo and his succeeding kings
held this root tantra and taught it to the inhabitants of Shambhala
during their reigns.
2.17: Chojé concentrating on giving the teaching
During the reigns of the seven Dharmarajas, the inhabitants of Shambhala were subject to the caste system, just like in ancient India. They
were classified into four principal castes: brahmins (priests, gurus,
and so on), kshatriyas (warriors, kings, administrators, and so forth),
vaishyas (agriculturalists, traders, and so forth, also called visayas),
and shudras (laborers). A set of regulations in accordance with the
166
caste system existed, for example, only inhabitants of certain castes
were allowed to receive the dharma teachings, while most other castes
were forbidden to do so.
Through the endeavor of Manjushri Yashas, the eighth king in Suchandra’s line, the caste system was abolished, and all inhabitants of
Shambhala were united into a single vajra caste, the family of tantric
practitioners. Thereby, Manjushri Yashas became known as the first
Kalkin King of Shambhala, the first holder of the vajra caste. He composed the Abridged Kalachakra Tantra in five chapters, a condensed
and simplified version of the Root Kalachakra Tantra, and taught it
to hundreds of thousands of people, including the followers of the
Melcha religion, which worshipped the sun, in his kingdom. His son
and royal heir, Pundarika, wrote a commentary on it entitled Stainless
Lighta
to further explain it.
The Root Kalachakra Tantra, the Abridged Kalachakra Tantra, and the great
commentary Stainless Light were propagated and flourished in India.
In terms of the Tibetan translation of the Kalachakra teachings, the Root
Tantra, the Abridged Tantra, and the Stainless Light were all translated
into Tibetan.
In 1027, the Abridged Tantra appeared in India and the Kalachakra
teachings were first brought to Tibet, and that year was named the
year of Rabjung. Rabjung, literally meaning “the supreme one who
goes forth” in Tibetan, has a connotation of the appearance of the
dharma. So, this name was given to mark the important time when the
Kalachakra teachings came to Tibet. Beginning from that year, Rabjung
was employed in the Tibetan dating system as part of the calendar
cycle. A Tibetan year following the Rabjung is properly identified by
three parts, the first two, being the Animal and Element, correspond
roughly to similar identifiers used in the Chinese Calendar, and the
third part being the Rabjung. A Rabjung is a sixty-year cycle, and the
first Rabjung was in 1027. This year (1993) is the seventh year of the
a drima med pa’i od (dri ma med pa’i ’od), Skt. Vimalaprabha; Pundarika.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 167
seventeenth Rabjung since the year when the Kalachakra was brought
to Tibet.
For all the Dharmarajas and the Kalkin Kings, when one ruler’s reign
comes to an end, his successor immediately ascends to the throne. Each
Kalkin King reigns over Shambhala for one hundred years, during
which they teach the Kalachakra teachings and transmit the lineage to
the inhabitants of the nine hundred sixty million cities of Shambhala.
Samudravĳaya and Aja were two exceptions, as the total reign of those
two kings was four hundred three years, during which Samudravĳaya
taught the dharma for one hundred eighty-two years and Aja two
hundred twenty-one years.
Who is the present Kalkin King in Shambhala? It is the twenty-first
Kalkin King Aniruddha, and this year is the sixty-seventh year of
his reign. After him, the twenty-second King Narasingha, the twentythird King Maheshvara, and the twenty-fourth King Anantavĳaya will
appear successively and assume the throne.
The twenty-fifth, also the last Kalkin King of the Shambhala kingdom,
is Rudra Chakrin, the wrathful wheel holder. By the time he assumes
the throne, the dharma will have declined in the world with its name
hardly heard by anyone. Even worse, among the outer cities and the
inner capital city of Shambhala that are encircled by snow mountains,
all the outer cities will have been conquered by armies of barbarians.
When they are about to invade the inner city, Kalkin King Rudra
Chakrin will appear to be furious. Fully armed, he will ride on his
stone war horse through miraculous power, wield his iron wheel
in the air and proceed to enter Jambudvipa, Aparagodaniya, and
Purvavideha in a clockwise direction to fight against the armies of
barbarians. After one year of battle, he will annihilate the armies of
barbarians and hoist the victory banner of Buddhadharma on the four
continents. He will rule the kingdom for one hundred years, and his
two sons, Brahma and Sureshvara, will be the principal cause for the
168
Kalachakra teachings to thrive and prosper for as long as thousands of
years, without any sign of decline.
The above was a brief introduction of the origin and history of Shambhala.
It is believed that your root lama, Trungpa Rinpoche, is the future
Kalkin King Rudra Chakrin. In his life, Rinpoche did create many auspicious conditions in this regard. For instance, he assumed the uniform
of a military officer and arranged many guards by his side. It is truly
fortunate for you to have encountered Trungpa Rinpoche, received
his teachings, and now uphold his lineage. By and large, anyone who
practices the Kagyu teachings, and particularly the dharma teaching
that Trungpa Rinpoche practiced, will be reborn in the realm of Shambhala as his warrior. What is the dharma that he practiced? As I said
yesterday, it is the gradual and complete path to full awakening that
had been practiced by Jetsun Milarepa. Among all his practices, the
most important is loving kindness and compassion, which is the one
and only sublime path that is harmless and peaceful and is commonly
practiced by all Buddhist schools.
Some of you may wonder, “We know that our guru was an extraordinary and great lama, but how is his primary practice loving kindness
and compassion?” Actually, all his activities were to transmit loving
kindness and compassion. Had Trungpa Rinpoche been a person who
pursued fame and material offerings, he would have gained much
wider fame and many more offerings by staying in India or the Land
of Tibet. In these regions, there are many lineage holders and great
masters upholding the dharma, as well as numerous devoted Buddhist
followers. Conversely, here in the US, before he came, except for very
few individuals, the majority of the people had never even heard of
the name of the Buddha, not to mention a word of the dharma, nor
had they ever seen a monastic sangha. It is just because of this that
Rinpoche came here and established Vajradhatu, which now has this
main center along with over one hundred branch dharma centers.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 169
What he accomplished is something no other great master in the past
has ever done. This alone suffices to demonstrate the profound loving
kindness and compassion in his mind.
Certainly, it may be inappropriate for me to talk about the qualities
of your guru, just like a stranger introducing your family members to
you. Nevertheless, since I have long heard of the vast activities that
Trungpa Rinpoche had accomplished while I was in the distant Land
of Tibet, now as I personally come here and witness his extraordinary
deeds, my mind is filled with great amazement, joy, and devotion;
so, these words just naturally roll off my tongue. There is a Tibetan
saying that goes like “selling a needle to a needle-maker.” If we try to
sell a needle to a needle-maker, it will rarely be successful. Likewise,
speaking of all these qualities of Trungpa Rinpoche in front of his
disciples may be more or less unnecessary, and please forgive me if
there is anything inappropriate in what I’ve said.
2.18: Chojé together with the audience
170
When finishing these words, Chojé gave the oral transmission of the ThirtySeven Precepts of the Bodhisattvas and briefly introduced the merit of this teaching:
To sum up all the essentials of the Buddhadharma, it is the ThirtySeven Precepts of the Bodhisattvas. Anyone who sees, hears, recites, or
practices this teaching will be free of illness; gain longevity, abundant
possessions, and far-reaching fame; and whatever they wish in this
life will be fulfilled. When this life comes to an end, they will easily
be born in the pure land of Sukhavati. From then on, they will be free
from any physical or mental suffering and solely enjoy unfathomable
peace and bliss.
I believe what you truly want is peace and happiness in this and all
future lifetimes, no longer experiencing any suffering. The primary
goal of my journey to the West is to try to help more beings relieve
their suffering and obtain happiness and ease. We do have the same
goal, and now my giving you the oral transmission of the Thirty-Seven
Precepts of the Bodhisattvas in Tibetan is the best way to achieve that goal.
As long as you listen with devotion, even if you do not understand
its meaning, simply hearing its words will bring you immeasurable
benefit.
Ever since the flourishing of the Thirty-Seven Precepts of the Bodhisattvas
in the Tibetan regions, it has been equally practiced by all schools in
Tibetan Buddhism, including Nyingma, Kagyu, Kadam, Jonang, and
Sakya. They all attach great importance to this practice. What is the
key feature of this practice? It encompasses all the essential practices
of the Buddha and his followers, including all lineage holders in India,
Tibet, and other regions. Its core and ultimate intent are to cultivate
loving kindness and compassion and to refrain from harming any
sentient being at any time.
It would be more than enough for your spiritual practice if you have
comprehended and grasped the meaning of this text. If not, you may
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 171
invite other lamas to explain its meaning. I am joining my palms in
front of my heart to pray that all of you can practice and actualize this
precious teaching.
I Made a Garment
To me, traveling with Yidzhin Norbu was entirely different from my traveling
alone. Every time I accompanied him to travel abroad, I would take as few
personal belongings as I could, be they clothes or other items. During this
trip to the US, while we stayed in Boulder, I found there was a big day-night
temperature difference. It was a little cold in the morning and evening, but
during the day, the sunlight was very intense. Given such weather, I felt the
need for a garment to keep me warm in the morning and evening.
2.19: Chojé and Khenpo Sodargye
wearing the garment he made
Unlike in India or Nepal, in the US, it was
difficult to buy monastic clothes or robes.
One afternoon when I had some free time, I
went to a few malls around Boulder trying to
find a proper garment that I could wear, but
that was to no avail. With no other choice, I
decided to buy a piece of cloth to make one.
Again, a saffron fabric was rarely seen as I
searched in so many stores. When I finally
found a fabric of proper color, I took it to a
tailor’s shop, only to be told that the tailor
had never made a monastic garment, so he
had no idea how to do it.
Luckily, I used to make clothes on my
own, so I trimmed the cloth at the shop and
172
taught the tailor how to seam it. Through our cooperation, the coat was soon
made. It fitted me very well, and the size was just perfect. That coat served its
purpose well during all the following stops throughout our journey.
2.20: The garment Khenpo Sodargye
made
I had been keeping the habit of giving
extra clothes to others, but this coat is an
exception. After returning from abroad, I
was kind of reluctant to give it away. To this
day, I still take it with me on my trips and
wear it very often. The fabric is of fine quality.
Although it’s been thirty years, the color has
barely faded, and its shape is the same as
when it was just made. It’s just that I gained
some weight, so it’s a bit snug; but I can still
wear it.
Of course, compared to Yidzhin Norbu and his dharma activities, this is
something insignificant and not worth mentioning at all. However, as I wrote
up to this point, this incident came to mind, so I went ahead and included it.
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 173
Farewell to Vajradhatu in Boulder
2.21: Dzigar Kongtrul Rinpoche offering a
khata to Chojé
On June 29th, Yidzhin Norbu met all
the managing members of Vajradhatu
in Boulder, as well as some great masters from other dharma centers, gave
blessings, and had conversations with
them.
Since this was the last day in Boulder
and we were about to leave, Yidzhin
Norbu bid his farewell to everyone with
these few words:
More unique than other places, Boulder can be called the second land of
Shambhala. I consider it a truly auspicious connection for me to have
arrived here and shared the dharma teachings with each of you. This
trip brings me immense joy.
When I was in the Land of Tibet, I was hoping to come to the US.
This time, it is through the kindness and warmhearted assistance of
many great masters who currently live in India and the US, as well
as the favorable conditions created by their dharma centers that my
trip to the West was made possible. When I heard that there is a
Buddhist organization called Vajradhatu, my heart was immediately
filled with great joy. I am not lying about that. I do feel that I have a
deep connection with you people here that was formed in our previous
lifetimes.
I truly appreciate your invitation letter, which turned out to play a
crucial role in helping me communicate effectively with the Chinese
and American embassies, as well as other government departments,
so that I could get a visa successfully. In addition to this great effort
to invite me here, you also sponsored the airline tickets, as well as all
174
kinds of expenses, including food and accommodation. For all your
kind assistance, I hold sincere and deep gratitude in my heart.
To conclude my words, I hope that we will be able to meet again in
this present life. If for any reason we are unable to meet in this life, let
us aspire to be reborn in Sukhavati in the west or Shambhala in the
north, so that we may reunite in the next life.
After Chojé finished his talk, Khenpo Namdrol summarized the dharma
activities in these few days in Boulder and then said the following words:
Over the past few days, His Holiness Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche gave many
supreme and precious teachings, and I’m sure that we all have greatly
benefited. I am a khenpo at Ngagyur Nyingma Institute of Namdroling
Dharma Monastery in southern India. In order to improve the overall
quality of our students in learning and practicing the dharma, I went to
Larung Gar three times to receive teachings of sutras and tantras from
Khenpo Rinpoche. This time, His Holiness Penor Rinpoche appointed me
as an attendant to accompany Khenpo Rinpoche on this entire trip.
Staying in your center and being with you for these few days, I can feel
your strong conviction and devotion, as well as your deep interest in
the dharma. This truly makes me joyful. On the other hand, although
some of you may have been adept in learning and practicing the dharma,
compared to practitioners in traditional Tibetan Buddhist academies, I
would say that there is still some room for improvement.
Traditionally, Tibetan practitioners adhere to the guidelines listed in the
sutras and shastras on observing a guru, before making a decision on
whether to follow this teacher or not. In the West, however, it seems
that most people would like to make such a decision merely based on a
teacher’s words. As a matter of fact, there are all kinds of teachers in terms
The 2nd Stop: Boulder, USA 175
of their knowledge, training, and spiritual achievements. If a teacher does
not have sufficient knowledge of sutras or tantras, it will be somewhat
risky to rely on him or her.
Over the years, you have been properly engaging in dharma study and
practice, embracing the Nyingma and Kagyu teachings without bias. I
hope you will continue to practice both Dzogchen and Mahamudra in
the future as you have always done.
2.22: Khenpo Namdrol in the middle of teaching
After Khenpo Namdrol’s remark, the Vajradhatu representative expressed
their gratitude to Yidzhin Norbu:
His Holiness, you said that when you received the letter from Vajradhatu
that you had great joy in your mind. When we heard the name Khenpo
Jigme Phuntsok, we had the same experience, and when we saw your
picture, it was the same. This is such a miracle.
176
Then, we began to read about your miraculous activities, and we became
excited, maybe in a confused way. It seems the most profound and difficult
miracle to achieve is the miracle of being kind to others. If you are going to
be the general in Shambhala, under the king who will have been Trungpa
Rinpoche, I would like to now volunteer all of us to be your warriors.
Thank you again and again.
In the end, Lama Mumtso conferred the Manjushri empowerment to everyone
and with that, the dharma activities in Boulder were complete.
2.23: Lama Mumtso giving the Manjushri empowerment
3rd Stop
June 30th–July 6th
United States
Rocky
Mountains
Schedule
June 30th
Arrived at Rocky Mountain Dharma Center
July 1st
Gave the Peaceful Manjushri empowerment and related teaching
July 2nd
Taught the first and second lecture on The Flight of the Garuda in the morning
and afternoon
July 3rd
Taught the third and fourth lecture on The Flight of the Garuda in the morning
and afternoon
July 4th
Taught the fifth lecture on The Flight of the Garuda in the morning and a short
talk in front of the Great Stupa of Dharmakaya in the afternoon
July 5th
Gave the Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma empowerment and related teaching in the
morning and a public talk in the afternoon
July 6th
Met with the managing members of the center and Dorje Kasung in the
morning, and gave the teaching on the essential points of the practice manual
of Peaceful Manjushri, together with a farewell talk, in the afternoon
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 179
At the Foot of the Rocky Mountains
3.1: Rocky Mountains
On June 30th, we left beautiful Boulder
and drove to the north, traveling over
mountain after mountain, like riding on
a roller coaster. After a drive of two or
three hours, we arrived at Rocky Mountain Dharma Center.
3.2: The wooden house where Chojé stayed
As vast as the Himalayas, the Rocky Mountains are the largest mountain
system in North America. They stretch 3,000 miles in straight-line distance from
the northern part of western Canada to New Mexico in the southwestern United
States. Drainage of the Rockies runs eastward to the Atlantic and Arctic oceans
and westward to the Pacific Ocean. The general climate for the Rocky Mountains
in July is very moderate and pleasant, neither too hot nor too cold. Forests, lakes,
grasslands, and glaciers can be seen around the mountain ranges. Here, the sky
is bright, the wind is clean, and the water is crystal clear and glistening. Being
180
surrounded by such a beautiful environment, the mind naturally becomes calm,
as if being exposed to a solitary place where the great Tibetan masters of the
past lived in retreat.
3.3: The wooden cabins at the center
This dharma center preserved
the Kagyu tradition of Tibetan Buddhism.Most of the practitioners were
Americans. Staying away from the
noise of the secular world, they built
wooden huts or pitched tents on the
mountain, practicing calm-abiding
meditation all year round. Among them, some had been in retreat for more
than six years. All of them were thrilled by the arrival of Yidzhin Norbu, eager
to receive profound empowerments and pith instructions of Secret Mantra from
him.
A Relaxed Chat
3.4: Chojé beginning to give teaching
As soon as we arrived at Rocky Mountain Dharma Center in the afternoon,
Chojé gave a short talk to the people
there and blessed them by touching
their heads one by one. After a short
break, he sat outside the wooden cabin,
looking out into the forests and mountains far away and enjoying the beautiful landscape all around. Then, he had
a relaxed chat with Gyatrul Rinpoche and others.
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 181
3.5: Enjoying the scenery outside the wooden
cabin
Gyatrul Rinpoche was recognized
at a young age as a reincarnated tulku
by Domang Monastery, a branch of the
Palyul Monastery located in Drango.
He went to North America to propagate the dharma in the 1970s. During their conversation, Gyatrul Rinpoche naturally talked about Domang
Monastery, saying,
“When the opportunity comes, I’d like to revisit Sertar and Domang
Monastery. Many years ago, at the request of Yangthang Rinpoche, I went
to Domang Monastery. That time, I went there directly after I arrived at
Drango without informing anyone in advance. When Tulku Tishta saw
me standing in front of him, he was quite surprised and asked, ‘How
come you are here? I didn’t expect you to come!’
“I told him, ‘I don’t like to inform everyone beforehand since there would
be all kinds of welcome reception. I am the same old me, even worse than
before, so there is no need to tell everyone in advance.’
“At that time, Domang Monastery was beginning to be rebuilt. There
were about sixty monks with twenty or thirty dormitories. I wanted to
build a Buddhist academy for the monastery but wasn’t able to do so for
various reasons. I pray to the guru and the Three Jewels that everything
will become better in the future.”
Khenpo Rinpoche said, “If the authorities give the permission, the construction of Domang Monastery wouldn’t be a problem. The Likhokma clan is a
large clan, and considering its total population, Domang Monastery is not a big
one to be named as the principal monastery of that clan. Generally speaking,
the monastery is flourishing. The Upper and Lower Likhokma clans have over
182
one thousand households, who are all very united. No matter what instruction
their gurus give, they will follow them and never violate a single word.”
3.6: Chojé at rest
Chojé also asked Gyatrul Rinpoche about the overall situation of Buddhism
in the US, together with some other topics as well.
Westerners’ Attitude toward Time
Every dharma center in the US is very good at time management. They often
make explicit schedules for things to be done within the time duration from
as short as several minutes or hours to as long as several years. Every time we
arrived at a center and settled in, we would receive a detailed schedule so that
we knew what we were going to do. If there were any changes, they would
inform us ahead of time.
I also noticed that no matter what the occasion, westerners do have a good
sense of time and attach great importance to punctuality. For instance, the time
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 183
for each lecture given by Rinpoche was scheduled for two hours, including the
time for chanting before and after the teaching, as well as the English translation.
If a lecture did not finish after two hours, some listeners would raise their hands
and remind Chojé that the time was up and they had to go; otherwise, there
would be some trouble for them, such as paying additional parking fees. If,
however, a session was completed even five minutes earlier, Rinpoche would be
requested to still teach something else until two hours had passed because they
paid for a two-hour lecture. It had become a convention in the West that a fee
was charged for a dharma lecture, unlike the traditional way in the East.
There was a particular time when Yidzhin Norbu was conferring the Chetsun
Nyingtig empowerment; and because the ritual was too long to be completed
within two hours, he sincerely apologized to the audience for running overtime
and kindly asked for their permission to extend the time for a half hour since
the empowerment couldn’t be interrupted.
At the beginning, Chojé and all of us were not used to the strict attitude
about time in the West. In the Tibetan regions, after all, a dharma teaching can
be quite free in style, and it depends on the teacher how long a teaching session
will take. If the teacher elaborates on the content in great detail, he or she may
teach several hours without a break; but it is also possible for a session to be
finished within a short time if the teacher doesn’t feel like talking too much. It
can be quite uncertain. However, people in the West are serious about keeping
their schedules neither longer nor shorter than the expected time duration.
When I inquired about why they were so strict about timekeeping, I was told
that being punctual is a sign of respect for others in the western culture, and if
one is often behind schedule, it indicates that this person may be not reliable.
Punctuality is particularly important on formal occasions; otherwise, it may
cause others many inconveniences. Since everyone’s daily schedule has been
184
properly arranged in advance, if there is a delay at one event, all the subsequent
activities will be affected. Therefore, people in the West follow their schedules
strictly.
3.7: Chojé checking the time on his
watch
As goes the saying “when in Rome, do as
the Romans do,” Rinpoche quickly adapted
to the western culture. Whether he was giving teachings or conferring empowerments,
he would use his wristwatch to remind himself to finish on time. From then on, I also
became a person with a strong sense of time.
Whatever I do, be it big or small, either giving
lectures, attending meetings, or having meals
with others, I am never behind schedule.
Reasons for Opening the Door to the Profound
Dharma
At Rocky Mountain Dharma Center, Yidzhin Norbu gave tantric teachings to
the practitioners there for seven days. On July 1st, he bestowed the Peaceful
Manjushri empowerment. Before getting started, Gyatrul Rinpoche shared a few
words with the audience:
First of all, I would like to extend a hearty and warm welcome to all of
you here, especially those who came all the way from somewhere else to
attend this dharma activity. Having such a wonderful gathering is the
result of our accumulating merit and purifying obscurations throughout
countless eons in the past, so we should highly value such precious
dharma activities. It is especially fortunate for us to be able to receive
teachings from such a genuine realized being as His Holiness Jigme
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 185
Phuntsok Rinpoche, a true emanation of Guru Padmasambhava in this
age. He has the power to grant liberation to those who see him, listen to
him, and touch him. Being connected with such a great being through
this activity, we will be able to recognize our buddha nature that is
primordially within us, not to mention gain benefit, peace, and happiness
in all lifetimes.
Our mind is like a mirror, and being able to see Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok
is the result of our great merit that makes the mirror clear, so that the
compassionate reflection of Rinpoche appears. Although you see the
reflection vividly, you may not know who you are seeing. Therefore, I am
here to introduce you to this great being, but my brief introduction is like
the blind leading the blind.
Although we have enough merit to be able to see him, it is important
that we should not waste our merit by overworking him because he is
advanced in age and tired from his busy schedule and travels. Besides,
he also needs to preserve his energy to meet thousands of sentient beings
and to bless them, so we should check often to see whether he needs
some rest. Instead of watching our watches too much, we should care
more about our future life.
Please be aware that Chojé’s physical health is the most important thing.
Your tickets cannot buy his priceless teaching. Although in this country
people have to buy tickets to attend the dharma teachings, it does not
mean that we should treat Rinpoche’s teaching as a service we deserve. It
is very inappropriate to treat a dharma teaching like a business deal with
the expectation that it has to produce profits. Instead, we should keep
in mind that this is a golden opportunity for us to accumulate merit, an
invaluable chance that can hardly be encountered again in our lives.
186
I’d better not say too much more. I am getting nervous because Guru
Rinpoche himself is sitting there waiting to start his teaching. I’ll just stop
here.
Before conferring the empowerment, Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok spoke about
three reasons why he decided to confer the empowerment and instructions of
Peaceful Manjushri at this center:
Today on this occasion endowed with perfect auspiciousness, the time
has come to open the door to the profound tantric teachings.
In general, since the empowerment and instructions of Peaceful Manjushri belong to the teachings with sealed transmitted precepts, they
are only accessible to recipients who have passed certain qualifications.
In other words, for both a teacher to give the teaching and for a disciple
to receive the teaching, there must be an extended time of observation.
The teacher must examine the disciples for years, and the same goes for
the disciples before the transmission of such precious tantric teachings
can truly happen. However, this time I have decided to directly confer
the profound empowerment and instructions to each of you. Mainly, I
have three good reasons for this.
3.8: Chojé conferring empowerment
The first reason is that under
the kind guidance of your guru,
all of you have started with the
practice of shamatha meditation and are following the complete path to enlightenment by
engaging in the stage-by-stage
practice. Instead of rushing into
profound Vajrayana practices
without any preliminary training, you first accomplish the common path and then move on to
the uncommon path. This is the authentic way to approach dharma
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 187
practice that can be fully trusted. I joyfully rejoice in your guru’s compassionate and skillful guidance bestowed upon all of you. Therefore,
I have decided to give you the empowerment that can ripen your mind
streams and the instructions that enable you to reach liberation.
3.9: Western disciples at Rocky Mountain
Dharma Center
The second reason is that you
and I are meeting together
through the ripening force
of our aspirations in past lifetimes, and there is an excellent karmic connection between us. Considering this, I
am eager to reveal this secret
teaching to you. How can I
say that we enjoy an excellent karmic connection from
past lifetimes? When I was teaching the dharma to thousands of
monastic disciples and hundreds of thousands of lay disciples, the
letters of invitation to travel to the US came to me, and they were
written by a great number of Tibetan masters who were from the same
hometown or of the same lineage as me. The moment I received these
letters, I felt an ineffable sense of joy. I recognized that this was a sign
of my karmic connection with you. From your side, such a sign was
also obvious. Why? Your centers have been very careful about inviting
guest lamas to give teachings, but as I was told, when hearing my name
and reading a little bit about me, you not only had an overwhelming
sense of joy, but also indeed made a tremendous amount of effort
to issue invitations to bring me here from a distant country in the
East. All of this shows that we have very good connections from past
lifetimes, so I am more than happy to offer this teaching to you.
The third reason is that ever since your guru came to the US in the
1970s, he spent over a decade working to build the structures necessary
to provide his disciples with thorough, systematic training in the
dharma. Although his direct dharma activities that occurred while he
188
was alive have dissolved into the vast expanse of dharmadhatu, did
he not provide opportunities for those who protect and assist in his
activities, such as me, to strengthen the dharma connections with his
disciples? Of course, he did so. Thinking about this, I would like to
give you this profound empowerment and instructions.
With these three reasons in mind, I will first give you the empowerment
that matures your being. Please consider, in order to place all sentient
beings equal to limitless space in the state of buddhahood, you aspire
to receive this profound empowerment and carry through all the
instructions in your practice. Please adjust your motivation like this.
3.10: Chojé teaching the dharma to tens of thousands of disciples, Mount Wutai,
1987
In 1987, I traveled with tens of thousands of Tibetan disciples, as
well as many Han Chinese and Mongols to Mount Wutai of the
east. We repeatedly made aspirations in accordance with the great
vows of Samantabhadra in front of Lord Manjushri. One time, with
the blessing of Manjushri’s wisdom mind, this ritual of the Peaceful
Manjushri empowerment spontaneously arose out of my expanse of
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 189
awareness. This is exactly the dharma you will receive from me on
today’s occasion.
The First Lecture on The Flight of the Garuda
3.11: Chojé drinking tea
From July 2nd to July 4th, Yidzhin Norbu
taught the trekchö section of Shabkar
Tsokdruk Rangdrol’s The Flight of the
Garuda in five lectures. Since Chojé only
concisely explained the verses without
elaborating too much, I won’t transcribe
the full content of these teachings but
selectively record some uncommon instructions in each lecture.
On July 2nd, prior to the actual teaching, Rinpoche expressed his two wishes
for the audience:
Now I am going to give you the teaching that has an auspicious connection with you. Whatever virtuous deed you perform, be it listening
to the dharma, practicing the dharma, prostrating, circumambulating,
or making confessions, the first and foremost thing to do is to give rise
to bodhicitta. This is indispensable. How do you generate bodhicitta
in your mind? You should reflect deeply, “In order to place all sentient
beings in the perfect, complete, and unsurpassable enlightenment, a
state of permanent peace and happiness, I myself must attain buddhahood as soon as possible. It is only through the engagement of
this profound teaching that I will be able to swiftly and easily attain
buddhahood.” This is the way of generating supreme bodhicitta.
Before the main teaching, I’d like to share two things with all of you.
First, always be mindful to practice the dharma step-by-step from
190
the basic level to the advanced level, without mixing the order of
how it should be. In other words, beginners should not perform the
conduct of yogis of a higher level, and advanced practitioners should
not engage in basic practices on the level of shravakas. As the Stainless
Light states, “Beginners should not perform the conduct of yogis. Yogis
should not perform the conduct of mahasiddhas. Mahasiddhas should
not perform the conduct of the omniscient ones.” For you to carry this
instruction into your dharma practice is my first wish.
3.12: Chojé giving teaching while listening to the recording of
the root text
Second, since you have been practicing bothMahamudra and Dzogchen
in an unbiased way throughout these years, I hope you will persevere
in your practice in this manner without abandoning either of them. It
must be known that Mahamudra and Dzogchen are like the feet and
the eyes: Mahamudra corresponds to the feet that walk the road, and
Dzogchen corresponds to the eyes that see the road. Why? Mahamudra
emphasizes the skillful meditative practice that enables you to abide
single-pointedly, and Dzogchen emphasizes the ability to directly
recognize the view that enables you to clearly see the nature of mind.
Both are indispensable, and the absence of either will make ultimate
enlightenment unattainable.
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 191
Just like it is very difficult to reach a destination if you do not have
eyes or feet, lacking the view of Dzogchen, and practicing the skillful
meditative practice of Mahamudra alone will not enable you to cut
through the root of samsara. On the other hand, if you just focus on
the view of Dzogchen intellectually and fail to apply the meditative
practice of Mahamudra, buddhahood is also not achieved.
This is why in the oral transmissions of great scholars and mahasiddhas
in India and the Land of Tibet, these two practices were always
combined together. Sakya Pandita Kunga Gyaltsen, the emanation of
Lord Manjushri, once said:
When the foolish practice Mahamudra,
For the most part, it causes them to be born as animals,
Or to take rebirth in the formless realm,
Or to fall into the shravaka state of cessation of perception
and feeling.
This suggests that practicing Mahamudra improperly may cause you
to neglect the practice of vipashyana and then fall into the extreme of
indifference that does not contribute to full enlightenment. Thus, you
will very possibly continue to be trapped in samsara.
Rigdzin Jigme Lingpa also said:
Clinging to shamatha where the mind is clear and empty,
Discerning the nature of all phenomena with
a distracted mind, and
Abiding in the state of indifference with no action
Are the three deviations from the path of Dzogchen.
You should know that vipashyana without shamatha will merely
lead to a state of discrimination and distraction, which cannot lead
to enlightenment. Therefore, I encourage you to always stick to your
present practice of applying the instructions of both Mahamudra and
192
Dzogchen and never make them separate on your spiritual path. This
is my second wish.
Of course, you need to rely on a perfectly qualified teacher to engage
in such practice and to attain accomplishments. If an individual tries
to practice alone without receiving any guidance from an experienced
teacher, it will for the most part bring failure. Many of you have close
connections with many lamas in the Kagyu lineage. In your area,
there are actually some Nyingmapa teachers as well who are endowed
with inconceivable qualities. It will be of great benefit if you can
invite them and respectfully receive teachings and instructions from
them. Favorable conditions for inviting teachers from faraway Tibetan
regions are difficult to come by. Take me as an example. I am old and
suffering from illness, and I also have a lot of disciples at Larung Gar
who need my guidance. Therefore, due to my personal reasons and
various external factors, I am afraid that this is probably the last time
for me to come to the US.
Nevertheless, I hope we can build closer and deeper connections
through this trip. That is, focusing on the Buddhadharma in these few
days, we can benefit each other by exchanging the teachings, having
discussions, resolving doubts, as well as sharing experiences about
our personal practices. Such a gathering is completely different from
worldly assemblies, such as those with a political agenda. I also feel
my disciples will have a good affinity with you, and I hope in the near
future they can build auspicious and close connections with you. This
has nothing to do with any political or economic issue; it is just my
heartfelt wishes and blessings for all of you.
Based on pure motivation, the above are my pieces of advice to you
with regard to practicing the dharma and building connections with
the gurus. Now we are going to study Shabkar Tsokdruk Rangdrol’s
The Flight of the Garuda. Alright, ha ha ha, since my eyes cannot clearly
see the text, my ears help me to “read” it. I will explain the root text
while listening to its recording.
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 193
3.13: Chojé playing his mini black recorder
Yidzhin Norbu then played his mini black recorder and started the teaching
from the beginning:
Namo Gurubhya.
From the illuminating sun disc of your loving wisdom
Limitless rays of compassionate light shine forth.
I pay homage to Chokyi Gyalpo who in a single instant,
Dispels the darkness of ignorance of all beings in the three realms.
and ended at:
This is the song which indicates how to ascertain the character of
basic mind in its natural state.
At the end of this lecture, Chojé summarized the teaching with the following
words:
When you practice shamatha, it is not enough to just remain in singlepointed meditative absorption. You need to determine the genuine
mind as it is during the single-pointed meditative absorption, and
this constitutes the path of Mahamudra. Then, further investigate the
194
nature of mind and recognize its true reality; that is the path of the
Great Perfection. Therefore, when it comes to following the path of
Mahamudra or the path of the Great Perfection, their essences are the
same. If the mind exists, ascertain its existence. If it does not exist,
ascertain its non-existence. Just like this, thoroughly investigate the
very nature of mind.
The Second Lecture on The Flight of the Garuda
In the afternoon, Yidzhin Norbu gave the teaching beginning:
Emaho!
Listen once again, fortunate heart-children!
First, here is how Dharmakaya Samantabhadra was liberated
Without having meditated even as much as an instant.
Then hear how the six kinds of beings have been wandering
through samsara
Without having committed even the slightest unvirtuous act.
to:
Decide with complete confidence that everything
Is the natural form of emptiness, nonexistent and yet apparent,
Through the magical display of one’s mind,
After which you should rest in complete equanimity.
At the beginning of this lecture, Rinpoche said:
This time, as I am teaching the clear light Great Perfection and you
are listening carefully, I believe most of you have truly understood it.
Even though for now some of you cannot fully grasp this meaning,
you should hold devotion and reverence for the teaching and have the
conviction that one day you will eventually realize its true meaning.
All of you want to practice the terma of Peaceful Manjushri. Its practice
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 195
manual, Placing Buddhahood within Reach, is provided in this terma as
well, and I advise you to apply it to your actual practice. In this way,
you will be greatly benefited.
3.14: Lama Mumtso, Ani Medron, and the audience listening to the
teaching attentively
For a long time, I have had a deep conviction that the teaching of
Peaceful Manjushri will bring great benefit to westerners, especially to
many of you present here because you are fortunate ones and have an
auspicious connection to this teaching. Unfortunately, I came to the
US at an old age, and it is difficult for me to stay to give you teachings
and guidance in the long term. However, I will pray for you that you
will actively practice this teaching and gain authentic benefit from it.
This teaching itself can be very helpful and convenient for you because
its meaning is condensed and summarized, which makes it easy to
practice. Although people in developed countries like you have busy
schedules every day, you will still find it easy to practice Peaceful
Manjushri on a daily basis. I believe this is a teaching tailored for
people who live in developed countries in the West. I will repeat a
verse from a prophetic text that I wrote down a few years ago that
196
precisely predicts that this teaching will bring great benefit to people
in the West:
The sun, universally benefiting all,
Rises behind the mountains in the east,
And shines to the west.
Ignorant lower mountains,
Do not be haughty.
When you are covered by the shadows before you,
Though you are free from the sunlight temporarily,
Eventually, you will be completely exposed to it.
3.15: Chojé delivering the teaching wholeheartedly
What does this verse mean? The practice manual of Peaceful Manjushri
was written down by me on Mount Wutai, to the east of Bodh Gaya,
India, but people who have auspicious connections with it primarily
live in western countries, and they will greatly benefit from it. Like the
sun rises in the east while shining radiantly to the west, this indicates
that many westerners will appreciate its value and receive immense
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 197
benefit from this teaching in the near future. I think this prophecy has
been affirmed at this time.
The Third Lecture on The Flight of the Garuda
On the morning of July 3rd, Chojé gave the teaching beginning:
It is said that on a single anther of the lotus
Which Buddha Infinite Ocean holds in his hand,
Is contained this entire three-thousandfold universe.
to:
Whether moving or still, mind is the continuity of awareness.
So, when you have fully comprehended stillness, occurrence,
and awareness,
Then practice these three as one.
This is how stillness and thought occurrence are nondual.
He offered a brief instruction as follows:
It is essential to recognize that all phenomena are the illusory manifestations of your own mind and then to further realize the very
nature of mind. In order to attain such realization, you need to practice
shamatha first. You will not recognize the true nature of mind if you
are not able to sustain single-pointed meditation for a long time. So,
practicing shamatha is the first step.
Furthermore, it is not enough to just stay in single-pointed meditation
where you think nothing and remain in a state of no thought. Such practice alone is as meaningless as falling asleep or remaining unconscious
and will not lead you to any higher states of realization. You need to
practice vipashyana based on shamatha. That is, while maintaining
single-pointedness, investigate the nature of mind as instructed. By
198
looking directly into the mind’s essence, you will realize that it is
empty, devoid of any shape and color, and lacks any true essence. This
is the practice of vipashyana. If you can reach this realization, it is all
you need.
3.16: Chojé’s bright eyes
On the foundation of shamatha, you seek vipashyana, and then you
need to engage in the practice of uniting shamatha and vipashyana.
Once you reach the state of the perfect union of shamatha and
vipashyana, you’ve placed yourself on the utmost sublime path. Therefore, you should engage in the practice that unites shamatha and
vipashyana in due course. Such practice needs to be repeated and
enhanced as much as possible.
The Fourth Lecture on The Flight of the Garuda
In the afternoon, Rinpoche gave the teaching beginning:
Emaho!
Fortunate and only heart children,
Listen with your undistracted and attentive ears!
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 199
Allow this harmonious song by me, the singing renunciant
Tsokdruk Rangdrol,
To be kept on the white snowy peaks of your heart.
to:
This fruition, without anything to be accomplished,
Has not come under the power of acceptance and rejection,
hope and fear.
To realize the self-luminous and spontaneously perfect
present wakefulness,
The emptiness where the three kayas are naturally manifest,
Is precisely the primordially enlightened fruition.
3.17: Khenpo Sodargye concentrating on Chojé’s teaching
At the end of this lecture, Chojé said:
This time, the trekchö section of Shabkar Tsokdruk Rangdrol’s The
Flight of the Garuda is coming to your ears without missing a single
word. You should listen to the oral transmission attentively and hold
genuine devotion to this teaching. Check yourselves regularly whether
you have truly understood this teaching. If not, make your best effort to
delve into the text. I believe through the blessings of Shabkar Tsokdruk
200
Rangdrol and his teaching, you will be able to realize its meaning very
quickly.
Now according to your faculties, I will summarize this text into three
key points. First, do not feed your conceptual thoughts by letting them
arise actively. Rest the mind in its natural state. Second, when the mind
abides in the state of no conceptualization, relax naturally, observe its
essence, and then recognize its nature as emptiness. Third, abide in
such a state and sustain this realization in daily life.
3.18: Chojé giving the teaching earnestly
I’ll repeat one more time: naturally rest the mind, recognize
its nature, and maintain that
state of realization. These three
key points summarize all essentials in Mahamudra and in
Dzogchen’s three categories of
tantra, transmission, and upadesha. Please continuously and
persistently practice these pith
instructions.
The Fifth Lecture on The Flight of the Garuda
On the morning of July 4th, Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok began with:
Emaho!
Once again, noble children, listen well!
In this way, when you have maintained the view without
distraction,
Then later, even if you completely let go and leave things as
they naturally are,
There will be no coming or going from the true state.
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 201
to the last verse of the text:
By its virtue, may many fortunate disciples
Swiftly purify the stains of ignorance, kleshas, and concepts
Into the original space of primordial purity
And attain fruition in this very life.
In the end, Chojé concluded the teaching with the following words:
Today is the fifth lecture of the teaching on The Flight of the Garuda. I
have spent more than ten hours on this teaching. The main purpose for
me to teach you this text is to enhance your experience and realization
of the nature of mind, and by doing so, I can purify the defilements of
my speech. This time, I have explained every verse and sentence in the
text without adding or reducing anything. Also, I have summarized
and offered all the key points of this teaching to you.
This text explains the clear light Great Perfection and also includes the
key points of all other paths, like Mahamudra and the Great Middle
Way. Generally speaking, of all the infinite doctrines taught by the
Buddha, the ultimate essentials are encompassed in the three paths of
the Great Middle Way, the Great Seal, and the Great Perfection. If you
follow the path of the Great Middle Way in a complete and correct
manner, the key points of the Great Seal and the Great Perfection
will be implemented in your practice as well. Likewise, whether you
practice Mahamudra or Dzogchen, as long as your practice is authentic,
accurate, and complete, the essentials of the other two paths will have
been applied in your practice.
Therefore, it is pivotal to practice Mahamudra, Dzogchen, and the
Great Middle Way simultaneously. Many realized masters of Kagyu
and Nyingma lineages, such as the third Karmapa Rangjung Dorje
and Omniscient Longchenpa, engaged in their practices by following
this method. We—teacher and disciples—should also combine the
202
three paths into one in our daily study and practice. It is of great
significance.
3.19: Chojé looking at the audience with smile
3.20: Audience in the tent for the dharma
teaching
How should you engage in such
practice that combines the three
paths as one? Sustaining the
state of calm abiding, the aspect
of the mind that is free from
any movement is Mahamudra.
The mind cannot be found anywhere, either inside, outside,
or in between; such emptiness
of the mind is the Great Middle Way. While abiding singlepointedly in emptiness, ascertain that the mind’s nature is lucid, clear
pristine awareness. Gaining certainty in this is the Great Perfection.
In his Aspiration of the Mahamudra of Definitive Meaning,
a
the third
Karmapa Rangjung Dorje said:
a nge don chag gya chenpo’i monlam zhuk so (nges don phyag rgya chen po’i smon lam gzhugs so);
Rangjung Dorje.
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 203
This absence of mental engagement is Mahamudra.
The freedom from extremes is the Great Middle Way.
Since all is included here, this too is the Great Perfection.
May I acquire the confidence of knowing one and
realizing all.
This citation means that being free from discernment and attachment
is the Great Seal, going beyond all extremes is the Great Middle Way,
and that which perfectly includes the essentials of all paths is the Great
Perfection. Karmapa prayed for all sentient beings to realize this truth.
Since I came to your center, I have been encouraging you again and
again to practice the teachings of both Nyingma and Kagyu without
any biased view or personal preference. You should make such an
aspiration and try as much as possible to create favorable conditions
to actualize these two paths. Thank you!
Meeting the Light
3.21: Joshua Mulder now
Among American practitioners who received
teachings from Yidzhin Norbu, many of
them had also met other highly revered masters and received precious instructions from
them. However, many disciples felt the effect
that Chojé had on them was so special that it
remained unforgettable even after so many
years. There is a practitioner named Joshua
Mulder who recalled this:
Everyone was shocked by the presence of His Holiness Jigme Phuntsok
Rinpoche when he visited our sangha. It had been six years since our root
teacher, Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche, passed away, so everybody was in
a state of lacking inspiration. When Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok came, it was
204
astounding because his presence was a powerful proclamation that the
practice is real.
3.22: Left to right: Joshua Mulder, Gyatrul Rinpoche, Chojé, Sakyong Mipham Rinpoche,
David Bolduc, and Bob King
Rinpoche was very definitive and energetic. There was an ancient, profound quality in him. You could see that he was thoroughly steeped
and completely trained in the dharma. Seeing him was like being in the
Himalayan Plateau, spacious and surrounded by mountains, as if you
had arrived in a different realm. He had a very strong presence of solidity,
genuineness, pride, and human dignity.
What benefited me most was that Chojé validated the practice as being
real. I started to practice Vajrayogini when I was twenty-seven, and when
I met Khenpo Rinpoche, I was forty-one, so by then I had been visualizing
myself as Vajrayogini for fourteen years. The moment I saw Rinpoche, my
entire visualization became real; there was a solid, human Vajrayogini
sitting in front of me. He was Vajrayogini in person!
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 205
3.23: Chojé shouting out phat forcefully
At some point when he was granting
empowerment, he shouted out phat,
and people among the audience saw
him levitate off his throne. That was
like a direct experience of reality. It
was a direct cutting through of the
conceptual mind. He vividly demonstrated the ancient tradition from the
Land of Snows in the land of America. And that is truly significant.
I Feel Particularly Fortunate
Professor Judith Simmer-Brown was the department chair of the Religious
Studies Department at Naropa University in Colorado, and author of the book
Dakini’s Warm Breath: The Feminine Principle in Tibetan Buddhism. She was in
the audience when Yidzhin Norbu was giving teachings at Rocky Mountain
Dharma Center and below is her recollection of meeting with him.
In the late summer of 1993, I attended a weekend retreat program with
my husband, young children aged three and six, and my mother-in-law
at Rocky Mountain Dharma Center at Red Feather Lakes, Colorado. The
program’s guest teacher was someone I had never heard of, except that
he was rumored to be an important, unusual master fresh from eastern
Tibet.
When His Holiness Khenchen Jigme Phuntsok swept into the tent with
his entourage, my breath was taken away by his sheer presence. He was
physically large and imposing, wearing the simple and rough robes of a
monk with no brocades in sight. His face was weather-beaten and broad,
exuding the uplifted and open energy of enlightenment. He spoke on
an elaborate shrine on stage, and his raw, earthy directness stopped my
mind.
206
3.24: Smiling Chojé
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 207
While I remember little of the details of Chojé’s teachings from the
weekend, they were based on the predictions of the Kalachakra for the
coming Dark Age, the importance of propagating the teachings, and the
urgency to protect the integrity of the dharma. He reminded us of the
wrathful compassion of Gesar, who fearlessly overcame obstacles to the
dharma. He praised our teacher, remarking on his incredible skill and
foresight in bringing the precious teachings to the United States and
Canada.
The several hundred attendees, members of my large Vajrayana community, seemed similarly taken aback by Khenchen’s charismatic presence.
Our root teacher had passed six years earlier, and the community was
a bit fragmented and at sea without his guidance. We yearned for his
directness, kindness, and humor.
Through the hospitality of our root teacher, we had hosted many other
great teachers during his lifetime, including the most renowned teachers
of Tibetan Nyingma and Kagyu lineages. Each of these teachers had
their own distinctive qualities and teachings and bestowed their specific
blessings on us as first-generation Vajrayana practitioners in America.
But none of these teachers had the particular kind of bold vision and
charisma Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok manifested.
In the years that followed, I learned more about Khenpo Rinpoche and
began to follow the fragments of information that emerged about his
remarkable role at Larung Gar. Even after his death, he still has brought
new vitality to many Tibetan practitioners.
I feel particularly fortunate to have been in the presence of Chojé and
to have received teachings from him. Given his remarkable charismatic
presence, it is no wonder that he has had such a meaningful impact on
Buddhism across modern Tibet.
208
A Short Talk in Front of the Great Stupa
On the afternoon of July 4th, Yidzhin Norbu blessed the Great Stupa of
Dharmakaya that was under construction at that time and participated in the
Lamp Offering Ceremony as a celebration of the US Independence Day. He gave
a short talk as follows:
3.25: The Great Stupa under construction
Today, I don’t have much to say as I haven’t prepared anything. But in
accordance with your request, I’ll just share a few words with you.
I believe all of you gathered here today must be Buddhist practitioners
and in particular Vajrayana practitioners of Secret Mantra. I guess
you have a deep faith and a heartfelt delight in Chogyam Trungpa
Rinpoche. If you want to follow him wholeheartedly, you should have
a good understanding of Rinpoche’s main activities that he fulfilled
throughout his entire life. These activities can be summarized into two
aspects: one is to demonstrate fierce conduct and in the near future,
to be born in the kingdom of Shambhala, where he will employ the
force of armies to tame and liberate unruly and rampant barbarians;
the other is to practice Mahamudra and other skillful instructions that
can lead you to attain buddhahood in this very life. I know you have
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 209
been engaging in these two main activities over these years and are
authentic followers of the Buddhadharma and your teacher.
3.26: Chojé praying to the deity
Being practitioners of the Great
Vehicle, all of us have two goals
on our dharma path: to enjoy the temporary peace and
happiness in god and human
realms and to attain the ultimate fruition of buddhahood.
The Buddha taught many skillful means through which we
can accomplish these two goals,
the temporary happiness in the
higher realms and the definitive virtue of full enlightenment. Mainly, we need to accumulate merit and to purify
obscurations, where there are
four key methods to use: 1) to
erect a stupa in a place where
there is no stupa, 2) to offer or build a monastery for a sangha gathering,
3) to pacify the disharmony within a sangha group, and 4) to cultivate
loving kindness. In all Buddhist doctrines, these four are the most
supreme practices for accumulating merit and purifying obscurations.
Within these four methods, the best one is to erect a stupa in a place
where there isn’t one. As the Buddha taught in the sutras, besides the
inconceivable amount of merit accrued from actually building a stupa,
even if a child simply makes the image of a stupa with sand while
playing, this act alone generates so much merit that it will lead this
child eventually to the ultimate enlightenment of buddhahood. This
merit itself can bring about incredible results without a doubt.
210
3.27: The Great Stupa of Dharmakaya
In terms of the size of the
stupa to be erected, as the sutras state, just to build a stupa
in a size as small as a myrobalan seed will enable one
to temporarily take rebirth as
a chakravartin ruler possessing inconceivable wealth and
happiness, and ultimately to
attain buddhahood in a short
period of time. The merit will be much more inconceivable if you erect
a large stupa of fine quality.
Such being the case, if you make a generous donation to the construction of a stupa, it goes without saying that the merit accrued will be
extremely vast. Even a small donation equivalent to the amount of
one percent of your food consumed in the three meals of one day
will generate the merit that enables you to not be born as poor and
displeasing beings but rather to always enjoy a pleasing appearance
and material abundance life after life and to attain buddhahood before
too long.
As for those who personally participate in the construction of a stupa, if
they spend time undergoing the hardships and difficulties involved in
building it, there is no doubt that they will accumulate an inconceivable
amount of merit. Even just carrying one stone for building a stupa
during a tea break will enable you to be born as a chakravartin ruler
as many times as the number of atoms that make up that one stone,
and eventually, to attain perfect bliss and ultimate peace free from the
suffering of cyclic existence.
These are the overall benefits that building a Buddhist stupa brings
about. If you construct a magnificent stupa specifically for your guru,
the merit generated is hundreds or even thousands of times greater
than the general case. This is because the root guru is the union of the
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 211
Three Jewels—his body is the sangha, his speech is the dharma, and
his mind is the buddha. Further, if this stupa contains the precious
relics of your root guru, it will produce the same merit as building
relic stupas for all the buddhas in countless worlds throughout the ten
directions. Even if it is built with ordinary rocks and clay, you will still
accumulate immeasurable merit comparable to building stupas for all
the buddhas and bodhisattvas with seven kinds of precious jewels.
3.28: Chojé giving a short talk before the Great Stupa
3.29: Chojé talking with members of the Dorje Kusung
212
Since you are constructing this great stupa to honor your root teacher,
you will accumulate merit and enjoy wholesome results as boundless
as what I’ve just mentioned. Not only that, because your guru had an
uncommon connection with Guru Padmasambhava, King Gesar of
Ling, and Kalkin King Rudra Chakrin, building his stupa also allows
you to make closer connections with these great beings, which in turn
will bring you vast amounts of merit.
In addition, making a donation or serving this project physically or
verbally will accumulate boundless merit. Anyone who takes part
in this project with the utmost energy and enthusiasm will enjoy
longevity, good health, auspiciousness, and happiness in this present
life, and in their next life, they will be reborn in a pure land such as
Sukhavati in the west, or Shambhala in the north. In the latter case,
they will become the first principal disciples of the Kalkin King Rudra
Chakrin.
Today is July 4th, the US Independence Day. Earlier on, Gyatrul
Rinpoche reminded us of impermanence and that we are all going
to die very soon. Now, I offer you the auspicious prayers that all of
you will attain perfect happiness, both temporarily and ultimately.
(Laughs)
3.30: Chojé waving goodbye from the
car
Some claimed that the world would
end in 1999. I’m not sure whether
that is true or not, but generally
speaking, in the near future, there
may be diseases, hunger, unrest,
and other disasters around the
world. Considering these misfortunes, you should be confident
that there is no negativity that
cannot be purified through confession, there is no disease that cannot be cured through medicine, and
there is no unfavorable condition that cannot be transformed through
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 213
accumulating merit. To erect such a strong, splendid stupa with sturdy
construction will not only bring you peace and happiness but also
auspiciousness to the whole country and even to the whole world.
This great stupa carries inconceivable benefit. When it is completed, if
you can actively make prostrations to it, circumambulate it, and praise
it, both you and others will experience auspiciousness, and all wishes
will be fulfilled. Tashi Delek!
Plucking Chojé’s Beard
For a long time during the trip, Chojé hardly had time to get any rest. He
was either conferring empowerments and teachings or traveling on the way to
different dharma centers. During our stay at Rocky Mountain Dharma Center,
every day he would give one lecture in the morning and one in the afternoon.
He also needed to receive all kinds of people who came to see him at noon.
Due to this very busy schedule, Rinpoche appeared to be physically unwell,
especially with pain in his feet, and thus needed to be supported by the arm to
walk or use a wheelchair. Sometimes, he had to take painkillers to relieve the
pain.
One day, people of the dharma center called a massage therapist who was
experienced at foot massage. Initially, Chojé could not get used to it since he
never had a massage like this before. But gradually, he felt much better with this
treatment and sometimes would take a nap during the massage. Seeing him fall
asleep, the massage therapist would lessen the pressure so that he could rest.
During the foot massage, Rinpoche would ask me to pluck his beard. We
used to do it with copper tweezers since there were no razors in the Tibetan
regions back in those days. At first, I was very nervous and dared not touch
his face nor pluck his beard too forcefully. Sometimes, I became exhausted and
sweaty, but I still couldn’t pluck too many beard hairs. This was particularly the
214
case when Chojé was falling asleep. Because I was afraid to hurt and wake him,
I became more careful and plucked his hair as gently as I could. Once, when I
was trying to find beard hairs on his face, he suddenly opened his eyes and said
in a low voice, “Ah ley.” I was so scared that my mind suddenly went blank at
that moment.
It took me a long time to get used to this job and relax. Each afternoon when
Yidzhin Norbu was not so busy, the massage therapist would come and do a
foot massage, and I would pluck his beard at the same time. Occasionally, I
noticed some of his beard hairs were turning gray, and then a kind of sadness
arose in my heart. Normally, the plucked hairs were not to be given to others,
so I returned them to him.
3.31: Chojé in conversation
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 215
The massage therapist suggested Chojé do some exercise to try to lose some
weight. He offered a kind of tea to Rinpoche and said, “It is very good for your
health. It improves digestion and helps the body burn calories. It is also available
in your hometown.” Chojé quickly became fond of the tea, and sometimes he
would add milk to it and make a sort of Tibetan milk tea. Later, I found out that
the tea that had been offered was pu’er. After we returned to Tibet, Rinpoche
continued to drink it, so I had the opportunity to offer him pu’er tea for a long
time.
Thanks to the foot massage treatment, Chojé’s feet got much better before
we left Rocky Mountain Dharma Center.
The Extraordinary Quality of Vajrakilaya
Gurkhukma
3.32: Chojé giving teaching in the large tent
On the morning of July 5th, Yidzhin Norbu conferred the empowerment of
Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma. Before bestowing the empowerment, he introduced the
origin and the extraordinary quality of this terma.
216
While you are receiving today’s teaching, please generate the mind
of bodhicitta. Contemplate that in order to benefit all sentient beings
equal to limitless space, you will receive the empowerment that ripens
your mind with the intention to carry out its stages of practice that
lead you to liberation.
The terma of Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma that you are going to receive was
revealed by me at the Asura Cave at Yanglesho in Nepal when I and
seven disciples were on our way to India in 1990. This terma was
entrusted to King Jinamitra of Nepal by the second buddha, Orgyen
Guru Padmasambhava, before transmitting any teaching in Tibet.
Guru Padmasambhava decided to travel to Tibet in order to help the
Buddhadharma flourish in Tibet, which was considered a dark land at
the time, meaning lacking dharma. On his way to Tibet, Guru Rinpoche
stayed and practiced in the Nepalese Asura Cave for some time, and
during that time, King Jinamitra helped him dispel the obstacles to his
body and created many favorable conditions for his dharma practice.
With great joy, Guru Rinpoche solemnly entrusted this terma to the
king.
As it is said in the Le’u Dünma—The Prayer in Seven Chapters to Padmakara, the Second Buddha,
a “In the rock cave of Yanglesho in Nepal,
you liberated all obstacles and obstructors through Vajrakilaya.” The
Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma is the leading practice for dispelling all obstacles
created by demonic influences. It is the ultimate essence of the whole
Supreme Knowledge Tantrab and, like a mother, is the origin of the
sixty-four common and thirty-two extraordinary Vajrakilaya cycles
in Tibet. Relying upon it, all Tibetan local spirits, such as the twelve
Tenma sisters,c were subdued and bound under oath to protect the
dharma.
a
le’u bdun ma.
b
rigpa chog gi gyü (rig pa mchog gi rgyud), Skt. Vidyottama.
c damchen mamo chu nyi (dam can ma mo bcu nyis).
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 217
I revealed this terma by recalling a former life. This terma is titled
Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma because Guru Rinpoche wore it in a small pouch
bound around his neck since it was such a profound and pithy practice.
Once revealing the terma, as the root text of the cycle says, “There
will appear wonderful auspicious circumstances that will bring great
significance.”
The circumstances when this terma was offered to its root holder are as
follows: Gyalwa Rinpoche wrote the lineage prayer for the Vajrakilaya
Gurkhukma, and the colophon at the end reads, “I, Tendzin Gyatso, a
bhikshu follower of Shakyamuni, who has a connection through karma
and aspirations, wrote this.” Hence, we can see that Gyalwa Rinpoche
is the root holder of this terma cycle. I had been practicing this terma
since I revealed it, and before giving its transmission to anyone else, I
went to Gyalwa Rinpoche’s residence and offered it to him. He attached
great importance to this terma and treasured it as a wish-fulfilling
jewel. He seriously and sincerely requested me to give the whole
transmission to him immediately, so on the very day I arrived, I offered
him the complete practice, including its empowerment and practical
instructions.
The circumstances when this terma was entrusted to the dharma
protector Nechung Dorje Drakden are that Nechung Dorje Drakden
served as the messenger for His Holiness the thirteenth Gyalwa Rinpoche Thubten Gyatso and Terton Sogyal, and he passed on prophecies
related to both of them. He also requested many teachings from Terton
Sogyal. It was dependent on these auspicious conditions that this
terma was revealed. When I was conferring the empowerment of
Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma, Nechung Dorje Drakden suddenly descended
in a wrathful form and received the empowerment and instructions.
In addition, at the request of Gyalwa Rinpoche and Nechung Dorje
Drakden, the prayer for subjugating activity related with this terma
cycle arose from the expanse of my awareness. Regarding the fire
offering in this terma cycle, this too arose spontaneously from my
218
awareness expanse while I was with Gyalwa Rinpoche, and he humbly
wrote down the words.
3.33: Chojé looking at everyone affectionately
Then, following Terton Sogyal’s tradition, this terma was also offered
to the chief lineage holders in Sakya,
Kagyu, and Nyingma lineages. As
for the Nyingma tradition, since
all the previous reincarnations of
the mahasiddha Kyabjé Penor Rinpoche were the main holders of
Nyingma lineage, I offered the empowerment of this terma, together
with its complete instructions, to the present Penor Rinpoche. In the
Sakya tradition, there were two primary lineage holders from whom
Terton Sogyal never kept any secret, Gyalwa Thubten Gyatso and
Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, and I offered the empowerment, instructions, and oral transmission to the reincarnation of Jamyang Khyentse
Wangpo, namely, Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche. In terms of the Kagyu
tradition, the chief holder in the time of Terton Lerab Lingpa was the
fifteenth Karmapa Khakyab Dorje. Unfortunately, his reincarnation,
the sixteenth Karmapa Rangjung Rigpe Dorje, had passed into parinirvana before I was able to offer him this terma; but I believe it will
be offered to his reincarnation in the near future no matter where he
may be.
This terma is endowed with perfectly auspicious signs that have never
been tainted, irrespective of outer, inner, or secret aspects. There should
be no doubt that anyone who practices this will obtain success and
auspiciousness and be able to fully dispel all obstacles and negativities.
This is indeed a sublime, profound, and unsurpassable practice that
has never appeared before.
I won’t say more about the extraordinary qualities of this terma. One
simple fact is that ever since it was revealed, the circumstances in the
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 219
Snow Land of Tibet have greatly changed—the well-being of Tibetans
improved, and the Buddhadharma has been flourishing. Not only for
Tibetans, whoever encounters it will have full success, inner peace,
sublime bliss, and auspiciousness, and everything will go smoothly
according to their will. This is another undeniable fact. Especially,
for those great lineage holders who have received this teaching, their
enlightened activities will increasingly flourish and prosper, like the
waxing moon. From this point alone, we can conclude that this terma
will bring great benefit and auspiciousness to all sentient beings.
I have briefly introduced the origin and extraordinary qualities of the
Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma, and now I am going to confer the empowerment.
The Buddha and the Dharma
In the afternoon, Yidzhin Norbu gave a public talk about Buddhism:
On this auspicious occasion, I’d like to say a few words from the bottom
of my heart. All of us present here today have obtained the perfect and
excellent human existence, and as humans, we have a more superior
level of courage, power, and intelligence than animals do in the ways
of benefiting ourselves and avoiding all harm. These two things, being
born as humans and the advantages of a human rebirth are what we
should be aware of from the very beginning.
Since you have attained a supreme human body with intelligence, you
should not waste your lives meaninglessly, like an animal not knowing
what is good and what is bad. Rather, try every possible means to seek
benefit and to avoid suffering. Seeking benefit is the shared nature
of all beings. No matter who you are, you will be overjoyed when
attaining happiness and heartbroken when encountering suffering. No
one likes pain and suffering while disliking happiness and pleasure.
Except for a few individuals, almost every person is actively searching
for ways and methods to acquire happiness. However, among those
220
who do not follow any religious belief, most of them are just bustling
around day and night to avoid obvious harm and running after petty
profits. Their way of seeking happiness seems as inferior as that of
animals. Instead, those who truly understand how to seek genuine
peace and happiness are mostly religious believers.
In the world, there are three major religions, i.e., Christianity, Islam,
and Buddhism, as well as a great number of other religious traditions.
Among all these religions, some only try to pursue the well-being of
the present life; some dedicate themselves to the benefit and happiness
of both this and future lifetimes; and some, however, focus more on the
happiness of future lifetimes than that of the present life. For anyone
who is interested in following a religion, it is necessary to carefully
examine the advantages and disadvantages of each religion before
deciding which one to follow. Otherwise, it is unlikely that any benefit
will be derived if you choose to casually embrace a religion without
knowing anything about it.
There is no doubt that within the doctrines of the three major religions,
as well as those of many other traditions, there are a lot of methods
to pursue happiness and avoid suffering. For instance, some religions
achieve peace and happiness for this and future lives by praying to
their creator. Some obtain happiness in this life by worshiping the sun,
the moon, Maheshvara, or Ganesha. Some seek temporary benefit and
ultimate happiness by taking refuge in the Three Jewels. Basically, most
religions are quite similar in requesting their followers to have faith in
their own deities and pray to them, and to have firm conviction in their
doctrines. However, it is necessary to ponder and analyze thoroughly
and in depth whether the founder of each religion possesses the valid
knowledge that is never deceptive and whether the doctrine each
founder preaches is free of any fault.
Someone may wonder, “What are the differences among the founders
of various religions?” Some of them focus only on their own benefit
and the well-being of their retinues and followers; and in order to
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 221
achieve their goals, they would harm the rest of the majority of sentient
beings. Some consider the benefit of all human beings while ignoring
other types of living beings. Some benefit not only humans but all
sentient beings. They endeavor to protect each and every being from
harm and suffering; and not only that, they hold the principle of
cherishing others more than themselves and constantly strive to bring
benefit to others. Such being the case, is it better to focus completely
on your own welfare and the welfare of those who are like-minded, or
is it better to strive to benefit both self and others? This is a question
worth reflecting upon.
Regarding the doctrines of different religions, some encourage their
followers to harm other sentient beings for the sake of personal benefit,
as well as their associates. Some advocate harming other beings in
order to benefit human beings. And some urge followers to benefit
infinite sentient beings extensively and equally and save them all from
harm and suffering. Of these three types of doctrines, which makes
more sense and is more appealing to you? Again, this requires deep
reflection.
There are also some religions quite new in this world founded by
individuals based on their own conceptual thoughts. If analyzed by
proper reasoning, their doctrines do not stand up to examination
and are full of faults and contradictions. These kinds of religions
cannot be regarded as authentic, sacred religions. On the other hand,
some religions originated in the world thousands of years ago, and
their doctrines stand up perfectly well to analysis and examination
throughout history. Hence, they are reliable and sacred traditions.
All these aspects of various religions should be carefully, deeply,
and meticulously studied before you decide to follow any of them.
Otherwise, selecting one in haste or only according to which religion
is more influential or more powerful cannot bring you much benefit.
As a Tibetan saying goes, “It’s like a hungry dog meeting a lung.”
When a hungry dog encounters an animal’s lung, it does not wait to
222
sniff whether it even smells good or not, but just swallows it in one
gulp. Like this, joining any religion indiscriminately is truly an unwise
act. So, before following any of the religions that are thriving in the
world, you need to learn more about them through the words of their
founders and followers.
Now, I would like to briefly talk about the Buddha and his noble
teachings, the dharma, from the perspective of a Buddhist or a dharma
teacher.
The Noble Qualities of the Buddha
What noble qualities did our root teacher Buddha Shakyamuni possess? He was a noble being endowed with perfect wisdom, perfect
compassion, and perfect power.
Regarding his noble qualities of wisdom, he was omniscient, he had
unlimited knowledge, and he knew the nature of all things. Specifically,
he knew what would happen in the future, what was occurring at
present, and what degree of suffering and happiness beings would
experience in future lifetimes. All of these qualities have been clearly
stated in the Buddhist scriptures.
3.34: Chojé with earphones
Not only the Buddha himself,
but many accomplished practitioners who followed his path
have possessed such omniscient
wisdom as well. For instance, in
the Land of Tibet, many great
masters manifested, such as Orgyen Rinpoche Padmasambhava
and Jetsun Milarepa, who predicted the various changes in the
external world, as well as the
diverse suffering and happiness
that sentient beings experience internally in their minds. They also
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 223
carefully qualified this by reminding us that all these experiences are
the manifestation of the karmic ripening of sentient beings.
What the Buddha and other great masters taught can be confirmed by
thoroughly examining the phenomenal world. Scientists have never
delivered a precise description of the phenomena in the world that
are perceived similarly or differently by the various beings. However,
according to the Buddha and his followers, it is sentient beings’ karma
and minds that are the source of all these phenomena. For example,
some may feel fire is hot, while others feel it is cold; some regard fire
as food, while some take it as a place to live. Similarly, for this planet
Earth, some see it as square, and some see it as spherical; some see the
sun revolving around the Earth, and some see exactly the opposite.
There are various inconceivable perceptions that are merely caused
by sentient beings’ diverse karma. If I am to explain the diversity
of the karmic manifestations of all the beings in today’s world, only
by relying on the Buddha’s unmistakable words as valid logic can I
give a satisfying answer. Otherwise, it is difficult to explain all these
diversities and similarities.
Regarding their insight into the future, the root teacher Buddha
Shakyamuni and all Tibetan accomplished masters who followed
him spoke clearly about the present situation in the Land of Tibet,
predicting what would happen in the future, including the suffering
and happiness that would be experienced. In addition, they precisely
mentioned that a great number of Tibetan lamas would establish
dharma centers abroad, which has now come to pass. Just from this
point alone, you can know that the Buddha and the great Buddhist
masters were able to look into the future. I believe this is something
not commonly seen among other religions in the world.
Talking about the Buddha’s compassion, our root teacher loved others
far more than himself. In order to benefit sentient beings, not only
did he repeatedly offer others his wealth and possessions without
stinginess, but he also gave his physical body, such as his head, hands,
224
and feet, to others thousands of times. Out of great loving kindness and
compassion, the Buddha always put greater importance on benefiting
others than on himself. What the Buddha did is completely beneficial
for sentient beings and never brings harm to them. That being the case,
do you think the Buddha is worthy of being cherished by humanity?
Please reflect deeply on this.
Then, in terms of power, the Buddha and noble beings who follow
his path were and are able to travel around every corner of the world
during the duration of just a snap of the fingers. In the presence of
fortunate beings, if needed, the Buddha could place the world and all its
inhabitants into a mustard seed. Such is the inconceivable miraculous
power the Buddha possessed. Among all his great powers, the most
important one was the power of teaching the authentic dharma to
sentient beings, and he transmitted an abundance of teachings. By
internalizing these teachings, some are able to eliminate diseases,
some can prolong life and achieve prosperity, some can improve
their appearance, and so forth. If you practice any of them, you will
experience the corresponding results.
The Buddha was endowed with numerous noble qualities, but the three
great qualities of his wisdom, compassion, and power are the ones that
bring cause for rejoicing. The logic is that no matter which religion
an individual has founded and no matter what special qualities are
possessed, as long as this person can bring peace and happiness, then
he or she is the one who deserves our love and devotion. If you want
to benefit sentient beings, you must possess wisdom. Otherwise, a
foolish one who knows nothing would certainly have no idea of where
to start even if this person wished to help the world. So, wisdom is
the first prerequisite. For this reason, I discussed the Buddha’s noble
quality of wisdom first.
Even if you are very intelligent, if you harbor evil intentions toward sentient beings, inflict harm on them through bad behavior, or relentlessly
fixate on making them unhappy, you cannot bring benefit to sentient
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 225
beings, and your intelligence only becomes an extremely negative
weapon that harms others. This is not the case with our teacher. The
Buddha not only possessed wisdom but was also replete with loving
kindness and compassion. His loving kindness and compassion far
exceeded the love of a mother for her only child. He loved and cared
for all sentient beings equally with an impartial attitude.
Having only wisdom and compassion is still not enough; you must
have power. Without power, you can hardly accomplish anything.
Imagine a wise old woman who doesn’t have hands nor feet and her
beloved son is drowning in a river. The woman knows precisely that
her son can be saved if she pulls him up with a rope. Sadly, because
she has neither hands nor feet, no matter how much the mother loves
the son, she has no way to rescue him. A lack of power is just like this
example where there is nothing she can do.
In short, it is only the Buddha who possessed perfect wisdom, perfect
compassion, and perfect power, while in comparison others only seem
to have these qualities. Our root teacher had extraordinarily unique
characteristics compared with the founders of other religions in this
world. Of course, it is not right if you just take and accept my words to
be true without any analysis. Since there are many founding teachers
of different religions in this world, I suggest you read their biographies,
the words they spoke, and the books they wrote and contemplate what
is reasonable and what is not. You should not just listen to one person
since it may not bring you the correct facts.
The above is a brief introduction to the Buddha.
The Noble Qualities of the Dharma
Now, concerning the dharma, which is the doctrine of Buddhism
taught by the Buddha, Buddhism believes in the existence of past and
future lives. If you take a foal or a baby calf as an example, the baby
animal has an instinct to suck its mother’s milk as soon as it is born, it
always follows after its mother intuitively, loves its mother, and has
226
the instinct to hide from its natural enemies or predators. All these
behaviors are caused by its habitual tendencies from previous lives.
Otherwise, it is unexplainable why the baby animal behaves like this
right after birth. This alone proves the existence of past and future
lives.
In the same manner, various occurrences of happiness and suffering
that each and every one of us experiences are the ripening effect of
the karma that we created in previous lives. This is not determined
by a certain individual, nor does it make any sense if our happiness
and suffering were solely up to another person or creator instead
of resulting from our own karmic deeds. You cannot find any valid
reasoning to support such an assertion that would deny the effect of
karma.
3.35: A huge crowd at the dharma assembly
It is true that in this world, some people refuse to accept the existence
of past and future lives, while some hold firm to it. Whatever the case,
as long as you engage in long-term analysis of this topic by referring
to Buddhist scriptures, you will gain certainty of this infallible truth.
Let’s consider, is it better to seek happiness with the belief in the
existence of past and future lives, or is it better to do so while denying
their existence? In the previous case, you strive for the welfare of this
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 227
and future lives; and even if future lives turn out to be not existent,
you would not suffer a big loss. However, if you only think about this
life and blindly believe in the non-existence of future lives, when this
life approaches its end and you find yourself having no choice but
being pulled to an unknown future life, it will be too late to regret not
having made any preparation beforehand. You would only feel great
sorrow that you had been cheating yourself to such a degree. In the
worst case, if you are born into the hell realm, any type of suffering
experienced there is unendurable, and the life span is extremely long.
Therefore, please consider carefully whether it is necessary to believe
in the existence of reincarnation or not.
There are many reliable teachings and logical inferences in Buddhist
scriptures to validate the existence of past and future lives. For genuine
Buddhist followers, it is unnecessary to prove this since they have
already developed a steadfast conviction. Even if gods from the celestial
realm came to dissuade them from believing in this, their certainty
will not waver. However, for those who are not serious Buddhists, they
may not really trust Buddhist theories and be suspicious, “Do past
and future lives really exist?” Even if there is no evidence to prove the
non-existence of future lives, many people still hold this doubt with
an inconsistent mindset.
3.36: Chojé with a solemn look
Anyway, it is safest to do everything in life with the recognition that the afterlife exists. As
a Tibetan proverb goes, “Even
if one stirrup snaps, the other
still works.” If you choose what
to adopt and what to abandon
with the consideration of the existence of future lives, you can
hardly go wrong. Otherwise, disregarding future lives can only cause you to delude yourself and others.
As a result, you will inevitably suffer the miserable consequences. That
228
said, it is best to acknowledge the existence of future lives and make
sound preparations for them.
While admitting the existence of future lives, does Buddhism attach
greater importance to this life or to the lives after this one? Future
lives are valued more because no matter how overwhelming the
happiness you may obtain in this life, it is temporary, and no matter
how tremendous your achievement may be, it will not last forever.
Even if you are ambitious to become the leader of the entire world,
however vast your merit may be, you cannot possibly achieve this goal
without painstaking efforts over one or two decades. Further, even if
you have made it, eventually, you may only enjoy its privilege for a
couple of decades. So, the happiness it brings to you is short-lived.
Just as happiness is not long-lasting, so is the suffering you undergo in
this life. As you can see, all of you present here are past your twenties
or thirties, and not many of you are able to live for another fifty or
sixty years. Given that both happiness and suffering are temporary in
this life, pursuing happiness and eliminating suffering only for this
present life should not be the primary goal.
Comparatively speaking, happiness and suffering in future lives are
endless and countless. Take suffering for example. If you were to
be born into the hell realm, you would find your body lying on the
burning metal ground, being impaled by arrows and spears, being
cut up by saws, and being tortured by other weapons. No sooner has
your upper body been cut through, your lower body that had just been
chopped up becomes restored, and no sooner has your lower body
been hacked up, your upper body becomes restored. Just like this, you
would relentlessly experience suffering for hundreds of thousands of
years before there is an end to it.
Conversely, concerning happiness, if you are reborn in the pure land
of Sukhavati, the ease and happiness you will enjoy there for one day
far surpasses the most inconceivable happiness experienced in this
human world throughout hundreds of thousands of years. The bliss
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 229
and happiness of Sukhavati are incomparable to any happiness in this
world.
So how would I describe the situation if you disregard future lives and
just focus on this life? It is like making a choice between working to
assure yourself of food and clothing for one day compared to your
entire life. I’m sure all of us feel it is silly if someone chooses the
former. Whether you enjoy happiness or undergo suffering, that which
is experienced in one day is short, but in one lifetime is long. So, you
should try your best to pursue a lifetime of happiness. Similarly, this
life is temporary, and all future lives are long and endless. If you fail
to seek happiness for all your future lives, then it may not be too
much to say that you are the most unwise among all the unwise. A
Tibetan saying describes these kinds of people as “big dumb yaks
with upper teeth,” in which case the upper teeth make a yak even
more clumsy. Conversely, if you work for the happiness of all future
lives, extraordinary benefits for this present life will spontaneously
come to you, and you will enjoy prolonged life, good health, abundant
possessions, stately appearance, and many other privileges. All these
benefits will reach you as effortlessly as charcoal that is naturally
produced when you burn firewood.
For every one of you, you will suffer more and more, and your bodies
will become increasingly weaker as you age. If you do not consider your
future lives and do nothing for them, a tremendous sense of sadness
will fill your hearts the moment you think that you will disappear
from this world. However, if you have accumulated great amounts of
merit for your future lives, the closer you approach death, the happier
and more joyful you will become. Just like those great masters who
have dedicated their entire lives to dharma practice, the closer their
lives come to an end, the more inconceivable their ease and happiness
become, as if a patient will soon be fully recovered from his sickness. It
is described by the Buddha in the Vinaya, “The exhaustion of longevity
brings about great joy, like being recovered from sickness.”
230
You may have noticed that for most people who do not engage in
any dharma practice, the older they get, the less they smile, and all
day long they have a gloomy face. By contrast, true practitioners of
Buddhism, except for those like me who have heart disease, will smile
more and more and become happy and optimistic in their lives. This
is the direct benefit the dharma brings to them in their present lives.
Gyatrul Rinpoche is a perfect example. The older he gets, the happier
he feels. However, many worldly people of the same age have to
experience more suffering because they have recklessly committed
negativity continuously, and their agony is likely to increase as they get
older. This is a striking contrast. Am I right? Look at Gyatrul Rinpoche;
his face is beaming with happiness right now. Then, look around at
those who do not practice; it seems like they all look sad with knitted
eyebrows. (Laughs and applause)
Some people may wonder, “How do Buddhists work for the benefit of
both the present and future lives?”
To attain peace and ease for future lives, you must embark on the
sublime dharma path that is peaceful and harmless for the benefit
of yourself and all other beings. This peaceful and harmless path
is beneficial equally to all sentient beings instead of only serving
those who appreciate the dharma and harming those who dislike
it. Buddhism in itself is all-embracing and provides unconditional
support and help to sentient beings of all kinds and of all levels.
According to the Buddhist doctrine, you do not just help those who
are beneficial to yourself only and inflict harm upon those who are
malicious. Instead, you should express even more kindness to any
harm-doers. In addition, you must not venerate only exalted ones, such
as royalty and brahmins, and those with renowned reputations and
wealth but disregard commoners or people of lesser fortune. Instead,
you must care more for those who are struggling and treat them with
loving kindness and compassion. Also, you must not simply be kind to
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 231
human beings but continue to harm other types of beings, because all
living beings suffer equally from physical illness and mental afflictions,
for instance, animals, such as horses, cows. It is obvious that animals
have the same desire for happiness and the same aversion toward
suffering. Sadly, however, they have no idea of how to attain happiness
since they do not have the intelligence that humans do. For this reason,
they need more care and love.
The altruistic and compassionate spirit is also an important measurement for discerning Buddhist teachers. Dharma masters that possess
pure, altruistic intentions and compassionate conduct are commonly
regarded as good teachers, while those who lack compassion and
altruistic activity are believed to be bad teachers. In this logic, those
who have only a mediocre motivation and conduct to benefit others
are referred to as average teachers. So, the criterion for being good or
bad teachers is whether they follow the peaceful and harmless path to
benefit beings. Those who fully embrace this sublime path are good
teachers in name and in actuality.
There are different degrees of altruism. For instance, considering
those Tibetan masters who carry out altruistic activities only in the
Tibetan regions, it is merely altruism of a lesser degree. Rather, to
benefit beings in places where the dharma is not flourishing at all is
a truly remarkable activity endowed with great qualities. Given that
most Tibetans take delight in performing virtue, it is not particularly
challenging even to attract all Tibetans as disciples and to teach them
the dharma. That is why propagating dharma in the Land of Tibet can
only be counted as altruism of a lesser degree.
On the other hand, to spread the dharma in places where it is less
prevalent, first, it is hard to attract people to listen to a teaching. Even
if there are listeners to receive the teaching, second, it is difficult to
help them understand the teaching. Even if these listeners finally
understand the teaching, third, it is difficult to guide them to actually
follow the noble path and put the teaching into practice. Hence, the
232
dharma activities of those great masters who live outside Tibet are
truly amazing. The Snow Land of Tibet is a place where dharma is
flourishing, so to propagate the dharma and to benefit beings there can
only be deemed as an inferior kind of altruism. Instead, accomplishing
the benefit of others with a broader attitude and a more diligent and
undaunted spirit is considered superb altruism.
3.37: Chojé giving dharma teaching
The reason I share these words
with you is that I hope those
who have entered Buddhism
can develop sincere faith and
conviction in the Buddha and
the dharma, and those who
haven’t taken refuge in Buddhism can be inspired to gradually enter Buddhism by deeply
reflecting on my words.
Regarding the qualities of the Buddha and the dharma, even wise
Buddhist scholars would find it difficult to describe them completely,
let alone someone like me. I cannot enumerate all their qualities even
if I were to speak for months. But now, it’s time to move on to the next
topic.
The Refuge Vows
Now, I will discuss how to take refuge in the Three Jewels. To take
refuge in the Buddha is to wholeheartedly regard the Buddha as the
one and only primary teacher in your life. To take refuge in the dharma
is to follow wholeheartedly the teachings that the Buddha taught and
never learn or practice doctrines that are contrary to the dharma. To
take refuge in the sangha is to rely on the Buddha’s followers as your
sole companions on your spiritual path and never turn to those who
hold wrong views toward the Buddha or even denigrate the Buddha.
More than these, since the supreme embodiment of all Three Jewels is
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 233
the root guru, you should supplicate the root guru, adhere to the root
guru’s guidance, and emulate and practice the root guru’s instructions.
In doing so, you are taking refuge in the guru.
Now, if you aspire to become an authentic Buddhist, please repeat after
me the prayer for taking refuge three times, so that you will receive
the refuge vows:
I take refuge in the guru;
I take refuge in the Buddha;
I take refuge in the dharma;
And I take refuge in the sangha.
(Chojé recited the refuge prayer three times to bestow the refuge vows
on the assembly.)
Having taken refuge in Buddhism, you adopt the identity of being
Buddhists. From now on, whatever dharma you practice, you will
gain benefits and blessings that are exceptionally greater than before.
As long as you do not violate the refuge vows, in this present life,
you will enjoy extended longevity and good health and be completely
free from harm caused by evil influences. In all your future lives, you
will be protected from the suffering in the lower realms. From this
life onward, you will always be born as a human, blessed with noble
birth, stately appearance, abundant possessions and enjoyments, and
renowned reputations. Moreover, upon your death, you will be reborn
in Sukhavati or other pure realms and eventually attain all the noble
qualities of a buddha. These are the benefits of taking refuge in the
Three Jewels.
Having taken refuge, it is essential that you observe the corresponding
precepts. That is, having taken refuge in the Buddha, you should not
forget to supplicate buddhas and bodhisattvas in your daily lives.
Having taken refuge in the dharma, you must abstain from harboring
malicious intentions or harming beings of superior, middling, and
234
inferior categories. Having taken refuge in the sangha, you are required
to follow the Buddha’s followers to embrace the path to full enlightenment and diligently engage in dharma practice. Most importantly,
having taken refuge in the root guru, you should serve the guru with
sincere devotion, abide by his or her instructions, and act according to
the guru’s intentions at all times and in all situations.
3.38: Chojé joyfully interacting with the audience
From now on until you attain complete enlightenment, it is necessary
to be responsible for two things. First, always try by all means to
bring benefit and happiness to all sentient beings. Second, since it is
impossible to benefit beings if the dharma vanishes from the world,
please do your best to uphold and spread the dharma. For instance,
you may exert your efforts to establish dharma centers in places where
there are no centers or to assist established centers to become more
prosperous and thriving.
Now, you have become disciples of the Three Jewels. Please do not
forget this title, and do not forget the Three Jewels. (Laughs)
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 235
Essentials of the Practice Manual of Peaceful
Manjushri
On the morning of July 6th, Yidzhin Norbu briefly met with the managing
members of Rocky Mountain Dharma Center. Then, the Dorje Kasung came
to pay their respects. They wore their military uniforms and sang a song of
Kalachakra, creating auspicious signs for the Shambhala community to dispel
obstacles in wrathful forms.
3.39: Chojé and the Dorje Kasung
In the afternoon, Chojé gave the reading transmission for Peaceful Manjushri,
Placing Buddhahood within Reach; and without any preparation in advance, he
expounded on the essential points to the audience or disciples gathered.
The cycle of Peaceful Manjushri in itself is the essence of all Dzogchen
teachings and is endowed with many extraordinary qualities. What’s more
236
exceptional was that the teaching Chojé offered at this time was the condensed
heart essence of the cycle. In a seemingly casual manner, with simple and direct
words, he explicitly and precisely introduced each instruction in the manual
in a manner that was full of pithy instructions and powerful blessings. These
vajra words that arose spontaneously from the expanse of his awareness were
something that ordinary people would find to be inconceivable.
3.40: Part of the handouts of Placing Buddhahood within Reach and the sadhana of Peaceful
Manjushri in 1993
Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok taught as follows:
In general, this practice manual is a guidebook for the stage-by-stage
practices of the complete path to full awakening, so it is not necessary
to use its Tibetan version for your entire practice. If you have clearly
understood the meaning in English, you need not go back to the
Tibetan text and recite that as well. Regarding sadhanas and aspiration
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 237
prayers, it is best to recite them in their original language because that
language has been blessed by the author.
Take the sadhana of Peaceful Manjushri as an example. Since it was
written down in Tibetan, you should recite it in Tibetan to receive
more blessings than if recited in English. The principle is that if a text,
whether it be written in English, Sanskrit, or any other language, has
been blessed by those who have accomplished the power of authentic
words, you can use that language for recitation to receive the greatest
blessings. For instance, although Buddhist sutras and the shastras
composed by Indian masters were initially written in Sanskrit, when
they were translated into Tibetan, great lotsawas such as Vairotsana
blessed their Tibetan translations with the power of their authentic
words of truth. Therefore, the sadhanas translated by them can be
recited in Tibetan without losing any blessing. As long as a translation
has been blessed by the authentic words of realized noble beings,
no matter into which language it was translated, you can recite it to
receive the same blessing as in its original language.
When will you accomplish the power of authentic words of truth?
Those of superior faculties accomplish authentic words on the path of
unification, those of medium faculties accomplish them on the first
bodhisattva bhumi, while those of inferior faculties accomplish them
on the eighth bodhisattva bhumi. The sign for accomplishing authentic
words can be explained by two examples. For instance, if a city is on
fire, when those with the power of authentic words say, “May the fire
be extinguished,” the fire will go out immediately. Or, if a person is
seriously ill and those with the power of authentic words say, “May
sickness be cured,” the patient will recover soon.
I personally believe the Tibetan version of the sadhana of Peaceful
Manjushri has been blessed by Lord Manjushri, and the sadhana of
Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma has been blessed by Orgyen Rinpoche Padmasambhava. So, please recite them in Tibetan.
238
3.41: Chojé lifting his hand with a mala
The Essential Instructions of Placing Buddhahood within Reach
What is taught in Placing Buddhahood within Reach? It offers all the key
points of an entire Buddhist path from the preliminary practices for
beginners to the ultimate stage of attaining buddhahood.
When you first enter the path, it is of great importance to contemplate
and meditate as much as possible on the four thoughts that turn the
mind from samsara. The four thoughts are the difficulty of obtaining
the freedoms and advantages of a human birth, the impermanence of
life, the infallible law of cause and effect, and the suffering of samsara.
These contemplations are the common preliminary practices.
First, contemplate the difficulty of obtaining the freedoms and advantages of a human birth. Be aware that such a precious human life that is
endowed with freedoms and advantages is extremely difficult to obtain
by thinking of its causes, the analogies illustrating the difficulties, and
the numerical comparisons of such a precious existence with other
forms of life. Since you have obtained such a precious human life,
you should be filled with great joy, never wasting your life under any
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 239
circumstance, but using it to actively practice the pure dharma. This is
the guidance on the precious human existence.
3.42: A large audience in the tent
Second, contemplate the impermanence of life. Though you have
obtained the precious human life, your death is certain, and the time
for your death is uncertain. At the time of death, nothing except the
dharma will be helpful, so you must practice the genuine dharma.
This is the guidance on the impermanence of life.
Third, contemplate the infallible law of cause and effect. When you
die, you will not completely disappear like the cessation of fire or the
evaporation of water. Instead, you will experience great happiness
or immense suffering based on the virtuous or non-virtuous actions
that you’ve created while alive. So, you must actualize the practices of
adopting virtue and rejecting non-virtue. This is the guidance on the
infallible karmic law.
Fourth, contemplate the suffering of samsara. Accumulating nonvirtuous karma will lead you to be reborn in the three lower realms.
In whichever lower realm you take rebirth, you will experience all
kinds of unbearable suffering over an extremely long period of time.
So, before these sufferings occur, you should diligently refrain from
240
negative actions and undertake positive ones. This is the guidance on
the suffering of samsara.
These four thoughts that turn the mind are practiced by practitioners
of both Mahayana and Shravakayana, so they are named the common
preliminary practices.
There are two uncommon preliminary practices that belong to Mahayana: taking refuge and generating bodhicitta. The instruction on
taking refuge is that according to Sutrayana, taking refuge is to have the
determination that along the path until the attainment of buddhahood,
you only have faith and devotion to the teacher Buddha Shakyamuni,
you only follow the path of the dharma taught by the Buddha, and you
only take the sangha as your companions. According to extraordinary
Secret Mantrayana, taking refuge means giving rise to the view that
your true essence is already buddha and concentrating on such a
recognition as best as you can.
The instruction on generating bodhicitta is to reflect that all sentient
beings are enduring endless suffering and are truly miserable. Yet,
merely feeling pity for them is not enough; you should be able to
place them in the state of buddhahood. Cultivating such a thought
is the aspirational aspect of generating bodhicitta. Further, the path
that does not require you to experience hardships for a long time but
enables you to attain buddhahood easily and swiftly is the clear light
Great Perfection. Therefore, in order to establish all beings on the state
of perfect buddhahood, you follow the path of the clear light Great
Perfection and maintain the view of this tradition. This is the practical
aspect of generating bodhicitta.
Since taking refuge and generating bodhicitta are the paths stated in
the uncommon Mahayana classifications, they are called the uncommon
preliminary practices.
Next is the practice of guru yoga. First, you need to visualize the field
of merit vividly. Visualize that in the sky before you, at the center of a
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 241
luminous and magnificent rainbow sphere and white clouds, appears
your root guru who is inseparable from the bodhisattva Manjushri.
His clothes and ornaments should be clearly visualized in the way
described in the sadhana of Peaceful Manjushri.
Second is to make mandala offerings. Visualize that in front of your
precious root guru, you offer to him or her your body, possessions,
and all root of virtue accumulated throughout the three times without
the slightest stinginess or attachment.
Third is to purify obscurations through the four remedial powers. The
power of support is your root guru who is inseparable from Manjushri
and seated in the sky before you. The power of remorse is to have
intense regret for all the negative actions you have done in the past.
The power of resolution is to resolve never to commit these negative
actions again, even at the cost of your own life. The power of antidote
is to fiercely pray to the guru in order to purify all the downfalls.
You should earnestly purify your downfalls and obscurations through
these four powers.
After the visualization of offering mandala and purifying obscurations,
you begin the actual practice of guru yoga and supplicate: “Embodiment of all sources of refuge, gracious root guru, to you I pray. Please
care for me and bless my mind stream. I pray that you bring my mind
to maturity through empowerment that brings maturity and liberate
my mind with the instructions that bring liberation. Please inspire me
with your blessings, so that I may realize the profound and sublime
path of the Great Perfection and bless me until I perfect the four
visions.” This is how you pray. At the end of supplication, visualize
that the guru melts into light and dissolves into you, whereby your
body, speech, and mind become inseparable from the guru’s body,
speech, and mind, and rest single-pointedly in this state. This is the
complete instruction on the practice of guru yoga.
242
Next is the completion stage. First, visualize your body in its ordinary
form, and in its central channel, there is the wisdom fire lit by the
force of the winds that purifies all impurities of the body into the
dharmadhatu. This is the completion stage of purifying the impurities.
Then, visualize yourself as the youthful Manjushri, and at the center
of your body, clearly visualize the winds, channels, and bindus. This is
the visualization stage. Next, relying upon the movement of the wind
in the channels, fire blazes fiercely at the point below the navel. The
flame rises up until it touches the inverted syllable hang at the crown,
from which nectar begins to descend, and that nectar fills the whole
body as you rest in the indivisibility of emptiness and bliss. This is the
actual visualization of the completion stage.
3.43: Chojé in concentration
The above two instructions
on guru yoga and the completion stage correspond to
the preliminary practices of
Secret Mantrayana in general,
while the uncommon preliminary practice of the Great Perfection is to ascertain the true
nature of the mind through
the skillful means of shamatha and vipashyana.
The instruction on the actual practice of trekchö is to directly experience the nature of mind as the dharmata instead of intellectually
understanding it through investigation and analysis. After that is the
concluding practice of tögal, which provides the supreme skillful
means through which to purify the corporeal body into buddha’s body,
perfect ordinary speech into buddha’s speech, and mature the bindu
into the great wisdom nature of mind. Relying upon the force of practicing tögal, you will gradually perfect the four visions and manifest
the four kayas and five wisdoms that are the innate inner qualities of
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 243
mind’s essence. This is the result of the Great Perfection in general.
The aforementioned are instructions for achieving enlightenment in a
single lifetime.
The instruction on achieving liberation at the time of death is that
when death arrives, visualize yourself as youthful Manjushri, with
your mind appearing as a white syllable ah at the center of the bindu
in your heart. Chant ah with a pleasing sound. Visualize that the ah
rises higher and higher as you chant, then shoots out of your crown
and melts into the heart of the guru Vajra Manjugosha, who is seated
above the crown of your head. Then, the guru ascends higher and
higher, departing for the pure land of Sukhavati. Visualize this process
repeatedly. This is the instruction on taking rebirth in Sukhavati at the
time of death.
The instruction on the dharmata bardo is that after death, the stages
of the dharmata bardo will dawn. Sounds, lights, brilliance, and the
kayas of deities that are inconceivable to ordinary beings will appear.
If you can recognize all those appearances as illusory, self-appearing
phenomena and abide in that realization naturally, you will achieve
fully enlightened buddhahood in the dharmata bardo.
For the instruction on the bardo of becoming, when the dream-like
signs of the six realms manifest to you, you should pray to your guru
and recall and practice all the instructions for achieving liberation at
the time of death that you have heard and practiced before. In this way,
you will be liberated in the self-occurring nirmanakaya pure realm.
This completes the three kinds of instructions for those of superior
faculties to attain liberation within this lifetime, for those of medium
faculties to attain liberation in the dharmata bardo, and for those of inferior faculties to attain liberation in the pure realm of the self-occurring
nirmanakaya. Thus, all the instructions on Placing Buddhahood within
Reach have been introduced.
244
The Features of Placing Buddhahood within Reach
There are three notable features of this practice manual, which are
conciseness, completeness, and the endowment of profound blessing.
Conciseness means that this manual is short in length and clear in
content, and such a text is rare to come across in India or the Land of
Tibet. Completeness means that in order to practice all the essential key
points involved in Buddhist teachings, this text is more comprehensive
than other manuals. It expounds on the complete stages of the Buddhist
path from the preliminary practices of the four thoughts that turn
the mind away from samsara to the main practices of achieving
perfect enlightenment. It is a complete, faultless, and swift method
for a practitioner to attain buddhahood. The endowment of profound
blessing means that just as all teachings of the Great Perfection are
inconceivable and can grant liberation by simply seeing, hearing,
touching, and recalling them, this manual is replete with all these
qualities.
Especially, this manual possesses three kinds of superiority, which are
that it possesses the close-lineage transmission, is free from obscurations caused by broken samaya, and is intended for this time.
The superiority of the close-lineage transmission: Between Lord Manjushri
and you, there is only one person, I myself, so it is supreme in terms
of a close-lineage transmission. (Laughs)
The superiority of being free from obscurations caused by broken samaya:
In the process of transmitting a tantric teaching from generation to
generation, the blessings of the teaching will decrease or even disappear
if there are conflicts between a guru and a disciple or among vajra
brothers and sisters. However, since this teaching was first transmitted,
there has never been a samaya breaker in this lineage. This is a supreme
quality.
The superiority of being intended for this time: Various Buddhist teachings
are taught in accordance with different times for different beings. For
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 245
instance, some teachings are taught at the beginning of an eon when
people enjoy longevity and don’t have gross afflictions, while some
are taught during a time when beings suffer from a short life span,
illness, and strong mental afflictions. This practice manual, like the
proper medicine prescribed for a specific illness, is an unmistakable
teaching especially intended for our time.
There are many teachings that are able to not only benefit all beings
of all places in general but are also specifically designed to flourish
in certain places. This practice manual will, in general, bring great
benefit to the whole world, but more specifically, as I told you in a
previous lecture, it is meant to be propagated in western countries.
In the Buddhist cosmology, Bodh Gaya is considered as the center of
the world, and there are four major regions to its four directions. This
manual is designed for countries to its west. This has been explicitly
pointed out in the prophecy that came with the teaching: Although
the sun rises from the east, its brilliance will shine to the west. So,
I personally believe that compared to practitioners in the east, the
western practitioners will gain blessings and accomplishments more
swiftly if they engage in its practice.
I also believe that compared to practitioners in countries like India,
part of which is literally “to the west of Bodh Gaya,” the actual western
practitioners in countries like the US will benefit much more from this
manual. Certainly, this is not written directly in the prophecy and is
only my personal opinion. Nevertheless, I do feel it is an extraordinary
teaching that is closely connected to and suitable for all of you. People
in developed countries are very busy and have little time to learn and
practice the dharma. Yet, as mentioned above, this manual is easy
to understand and convenient to carry out, so it meets your needs
perfectly. (Laughs)
When you practice this manual, if you understand the meaning of the
entire text, you can engage in its practice easily. I have accepted you as
my direct disciples and have entrusted this manual to you. This is the
246
best I can provide for you. If you come to certain points that you do
not understand, you should ask for guidance from a qualified teacher
who has its transmission so that you learn the meaning and know how
to carry on with the practice. This manual is not difficult and will not
take much time to learn and apply. Only after you fully understand
the meaning of every phrase and sentence will your practice bring you
great benefit.
3.44: Chojé compassionately looking at the audience
Now, there are many lamas who have received the transmission of
Peaceful Manjushri. The lamas present here and many other lamas in
India and the Land of Tibet are holders of its transmission. There are
also many Han Chinese practitioners who have its transmission. From
among them, those who possess supreme qualities and are qualified
to transmit the terma of Peaceful Manjushri can assist you to carry forth
your practice in the future and beyond.
That completes my brief instruction on Placing Buddhahood within Reach.
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 247
Brief Meditation Guidance on Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma
After finishing the teaching on Placing Buddhahood within Reach, at the request of
the audience, Chojé transmitted the pith instructions for visualizing Vajrakilaya
Gurkhukma.
According to your request, I will provide you with the concise method
of how to develop the generation stage of the Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma
practice. Since the copies of the English version of this practice have
been made available to you, I will just explain to you the essential
points.
3.45: Chojé holding a phurba to confer
the Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma empowerment
The first part is the lineage prayer
entitled Lineage Prayer that Swiftly
Engages the Blessings written by
Gyalwa Rinpoche. You need to
supplicate the lineage gurus successively one-by-one from the
dharmakaya Samantabhadra, the
sambhogakaya Vajradharma, the
nirmanakaya Padmasambhava,
to Nanam Dorje Dudjom, the
Indestructible Subduer of Mara.
From Rigdzin Godem, the vidyadhara Vulture Feathers, to Pema
Wangchen, this is a supplication to all my previous reincarnations
until the present. After that, there is a supplication to the wrathful
Vajrakumara and the hosts of deities in his mandala. You pray to
these noble beings in order to dispel all outer and inner obstacles.
That is, you pray for their blessings so that all outer obstacles created
by the mara of sickness, obstructive spirits, ferocious ghosts, and all
other harmful forces can be averted and that all inner obstacles of the
negative conceptual thoughts that prevent practicing the clear light
Great Perfection can be pacified. Eventually, through their blessings,
248
you supplicate to attain the direct realization of the meaning of the
generation stage, the completion stage, and the Great Perfection.
Next, you take refuge, generate bodhicitta, and make samaya vows.
You take refuge in Vajrakumara, the deity who is the manifestation of
your own awareness as absolute wisdom. To liberate all sentient beings
from the ocean of suffering, you generate bodhicitta. You embrace the
samaya vows with the commitment to keep the samaya of all wrathful
deities in terms of knowing what to accept and what to reject.
Then, the actual generation stage begins. First, you need to arouse the
view that all phenomena are empty and then abide in that view. Next,
out of the state of emptiness, visualize that in an instant, you appear
as the great, glorious Vajrakumara, King of Wrath.
3.46: Chojé in the middle of giving empowerment
How do you visualize the glorious Vajrakumara? He is dark blue in
color with one face and two arms, and his palms are pressed together,
rolling a phurba. He is adorned with ten heruka accouterments and
eight ornaments of the charnel ground. More specifically, he wears a
human skin, a tiger skin, and an elephant hide and is ornamented with
a mala of dried human skulls, a garland of slightly moist human skulls,
and a necklace of freshly severed human heads. Visualize Vajrakumara
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 249
in this terrifying form. He stands atop male and female rudras22 on the
middle of lotus, sun, and moon discs, with his two legs spread wide
apart in a striding posture. He is radiant within an expanse of blazing
wisdom fire. You need to clearly visualize yourselves to appear in this
way.
3.47: Chojé just finishing an empowerment
While reciting the mantra, maintain the view that all appearances are the deity, all sounds
are the mantra, and all conceptual thoughts are the play of
wisdom. Remain in such a state
and recite the mantra.
When concluding the meditation session, you dedicate the
merit by reflecting, “May the
virtue accumulated in this practice, together with all my virtue, become
the cause to actualize the fruition of the wrathful Vajrakumara.” Then,
recite the verse of auspiciousness and contemplate, “By the power
of the merit generated from my diligent practice of these profound
generation and completion stages, may all inauspiciousness and disasters throughout the ten directions be constantly pacified, and may the
brilliance of virtue and goodness shine throughout the three realms.”
The guidance manual for the Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma practice has now
been clearly explained for you.
Farewell Prayers
At this point, Yidzhin Norbu had completed all the dharma activities of
conferring empowerments and giving teachings and practical guidance at
Rocky Mountain Dharma Center. At the end of the last session, he offered his
final prayers to all the students:
250
3.48: First on the right: the scary fullbearded David Bolduc
Now, my time here is approaching its end. I’d like to thank all of
you at this center for your great
kindness to me. You invited me
to this country at the beginning,
then covered the expenses for my
trip and hosted me with the greatest hospitality. Like this gentleman,
the scary full-bearded David,23 he
greeted me the moment I got off the plane and has been taking good
care of me and arranging everything for me wholeheartedly till now,
the end of this visit. I am deeply impressed by your great delight and
faith in me. Thank you so much for serving me so well, even finding
doctors to treat my health issues. All of these things have caused you so
much trouble, and there is no other way for me to repay your kindness.
I can only pray for you sincerely that in all your future lifetimes you
will experience perfect peace and happiness.
3.49: Chojé offering auspicious prayers and blessings
How do I offer my prayers for auspiciousness? First, may every managing member in your sangha community attain high realization and
The 3rd Stop: Rocky Mountains, USA 251
great virtue and enjoy universal auspiciousness. Second, may all
Vajradhatu dharma centers thrive and be fully endowed with success
and prosperity. Third, may incomparable experience and realization
arise in the mind of each and every one of you. Fourth, may you enjoy
longevity, health, peace, as well as perfect happiness in this life. Fifth
and last, may we be able to meet again in this life, so I can teach and
you can listen to the sublime dharma. When this life comes to an
end, may we be reborn in Sukhavati, the western Land of Bliss, where
we will reunite at the feet of Lord Buddha Amitabha and enjoy the
profound and vast dharma.
Chojé sealed the prayers by reciting the mantra of interdependent origination
and verses of auspiciousness, and afterward, he made aspirations and dedication.
With that, the dharma activities at Rocky Mountain Dharma Center were
perfectly complete.
4th Stop
July 7th–July 22nd
United States
California
&
Oregon
Schedule
July 7th
Arrived at Ati Ling, Napa Valley, CA
July 8th
Visited San Francisco, CA
July 9th
Conferred the Tendrel Nyesel empowerment in the afternoon, Napa Valley
July 10th
Conferred the Chetsun Nyingtig empowerment in the morning and gave the
first lecture on Chetsun Nyingtig in the afternoon, Napa Valley
July 11th
Conferred the Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma and Peaceful Manjushri empowerments
in the morning and teachings in the afternoon
July 12th
Gave the second lecture on Chetsun Nyingtig in the afternoon
July 13th
Went to the French Consulate in San Francisco in the morning and gave the
third lecture on Chetsun Nyingtig in the afternoon
254
July 14th
Visited Marine World in the morning, gave the fourth lecture on Chetsun
Nyingtig in the afternoon, and presided over the Shower of Blessings ganachakra
in the evening
July 15th
The entourage rode in a hot air balloon in the morning, and H.H. Khenpo
Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche conferred the Peaceful Manjushri empowerment and
teachings in the afternoon
July 16th
Taught on Placing Buddhahood within Reach in the morning and flew in a
private jet in the afternoon
July 17th
Conferred the Yang Zab Nyingpo empowerment revealed by Lerab Lingpa
and taught on the Thirty-Seven Precepts of the Bodhisattvas in the afternoon
July 18th
Conferred a longevity empowerment revealed by Lerab Lingpa and presided
over a large ganachakra feast in the afternoon
July 19th
Visited Rigdzin Ling near Weaverville, California and gave the Tendrel Nyesel
empowerment in the evening
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 255
July 20th
Visited Tashi Choling near Ashland, Oregon and taught to local Buddhists
July 21st
Consecrated the Vajrasattva statue in the afternoon at Tashi Choling and
conferred a longevity empowerment and a phowa transmission from the
Longchen Nyingtig tradition and teachings in the evening in Ashland, Oregon
July 22nd
Visited Yeshe Nyingpo Orgyen Dorje Den, San Francisco, California, and
conferred the empowerment of Jampal Yeshe Sempa
256
Arrived in Napa Valley
On the morning of July 7th, we departed from Rocky Mountain Dharma
Center and traveled about three hours by car to Stapleton International Airport
in Denver. After nearly three hours of flying, we landed at San Francisco
International Airport in California. From the airport, we were transported by
car and arrived in the renowned Napa Valley after about two and a half hours.
4.1: The vineyards of Napa Valley
Napa Valley is one of the earliest wineproducing areas in the United States to be
recognized as a world-class wine region.
Its scenery is beautiful, and the weather
is pleasant. Along the main roads, vineyards can be seen almost everywhere,
stretching along the hills. In the 1980s,
as vineyards from Napa Valley became
known worldwide, tourism there began to grow rapidly. Since then, Napa Valley
has become a popular tourist attraction in California, where visitors can enjoy a
variety of wine and gourmet food, as well as many outdoor activities.
4.2: Arriving at Ati Ling
In the late afternoon as the sun was
about to set, we arrived at Ati Ling in
Napa Valley. Tromge Jigme Rinpoche, son
of Chagdud Tulku Rinpoche, was the resident lama of this dharma center. It was
situated on a beautiful hillside where the
environment was quiet and the landscape
pleasant. Tall, lush trees surrounded the
center, and the dense foliage almost completely enveloped the building. Dappled
light and shadows played across the ground, as beams of sunlight filtered
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 257
through the gap of the foliage, which gave me the impression of a dream. Even
though it was quite hot outside, I felt considerably cooler as I walked through
the center’s gate and entered the trees.
4.3: Lincoln Theater
Chojé stayed at Ati Ling until July
19th, totaling eleven days, the longest
duration at any location in North America. Very close to Ati Ling was the Lincoln Theater at the Veteran’s Home in
Yountville, California, and this was the
large venue where Yidzhin Norbu and
other members of the entourage would
give many empowerments and teachings in the days to come.
4.4: Chojé’s teaching schedule in Napa Valley
258
4.5: Chojé together with the Tibetan devotees
Visited San Francisco
On July 8th, we took a day tour to famous San Francisco, one of the most
recognizable and distinctive cities in the US, as well as being vibrant, artistic,
and creative. People of diverse cultural backgrounds, such as Italian, Spanish,
Mexican, Japanese, Chinese, and others, can be found all over the city, making
it an accessible, multicultural blend, like a palette in the hands of a painter. As
we explored the entire city’s attractions, we were amazed by the inclusiveness
of the local culture and the versatility of the locals.
Thereafter, we paid a visit to the Golden Gate Bridge, which is recognized as
one of San Francisco’s iconic structures. Its construction was completed in 1937.
It is around 2.7 kilometers long and its towers are 227 meters tall. While its
excellent design and distinguished color make it one of the most aesthetically
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 259
pleasing bridges in the world, unfortunately, its 75-meter-high deck also is
the site of many suicides. In 1937, nearly three months after the bridge was
completed, a World War I veteran committed suicide by leaping off the bridge.
At the time we visited, we were told that nearly one thousand people had
committed suicide from that bridge, so we softly chanted the Avalokiteshvara
mantra for these deceased people. We then returned to Ati Ling fairly late that
day.
4.6: Golden Gate Bridge, San Francisco
260
The Tendrel Nyesel
Starting on July 9th, Yidzhin Norbu began the series of empowerments and
dharma teachings in Napa Valley at the Lincoln Theater.
This teaching event was jointly organized by Chagdud Gompa and Pacific
Region Yeshe Nyingpo. The majority of the audience consisted of Buddhists
who had faith in the Nyingma lineage and had been practicing Secret Mantra
for many years. Most of these practitioners came from the entire length of the
West Coast of the US, and as far away as Hawaii and the Rocky Mountains. The
theater that could seat over a thousand people was completely full, and people
of many different nationalities and skin colors warmly welcomed Khenpo
Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche. The translator for this series of empowerments and
teachings was a translator and practitioner named Chokyi Nyima, Richard
Barron.
4.7: Right: Chokyi Nyima, the translator
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 261
On the afternoon of July 9th, Chojé gave the empowerment of Tendrel Nyesel,
a terma revealed by Terton Sogyal. This terma contains three kinds of practices:
elaborate, intermediate, and brief. This time, Rinpoche gave the empowerment
for the intermediate practice.
4.8: Chojé sitting on the throne
262
The First Lecture on Chetsun Nyingtig
On the morning of July 10th, Chojé gave the empowerment of Chetsun Nyingtig
based on Jamgon Kongtrul Lodro Thayé’s24 commentary entitled The Supreme
Elixir for Making Gold: A Clear Arrangement of the Liberating Empowerment for
the Great Chetsun’s Profound Essence of Vimalamitra.
a
In the afternoon, he began
teaching the Chetsun Nyingtig terma revealed by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo.
The teaching was given in four lectures, and this was the first one.
Having perfected the four visions of clear light,
Your awareness arose as the unchanging five kayas.
Pure form of the great transference rainbow kaya,
O deathless Vimalamitra,
Look upon me with loving kindness and compassion
And immediately bestow blessings of direct realization.
Our root teacher Buddha Shakyamuni, who is endowed with great
compassion, loving kindness, and skillful means, gave rise to supreme
bodhicitta many eons ago. Then, over three countless eons, he diligently
engaged in the accumulation of merit and finally manifested the
attainment of buddhahood in Bodh Gaya, India.
After attaining buddhahood, in order to benefit ordinary and extraordinary beings both of whom were to be tamed by the teachings of
the common vehicle, the Buddha turned the first wheel of dharma on
the Four Noble Truths at Deer Park to the five human bhikshus and
the eighty thousand celestial beings.
Later, at Vulture Peak, he turned the wheel of dharma for the second
time on the absence of characteristics in order to benefit all sentient
beings to be tamed through the Mahayana path. By teaching the
extensive, middling, and concise prajnaparamita sutras, the Buddha
a
chetsun chenpo bimala’i nyingtig gi min ched wang gi lag lens al war kodpa ser gyur tsi chog (lce btsun
chen po bi ma la’i snying thig gi smin byed dbang gi lag len gsal bar bkod pa gser ’gyur rtsi mchog);
Jamgon Kongtrul Lodro Thayé.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 263
established the view that all phenomena—from material forms to the
Buddha’s omniscient wisdom—are empty in nature.
Then, for extraordinary sentient beings who follow the Mahayana path,
the Buddha turned the third wheel of dharma on fully distinguishing
the reality beyond a trace of doubt at Vaishali and various other
locations.
4.9: Conferring the Chetsun Nyingtig empowerment
Afterward, for those with the sharpest capacity, the Buddha gave
the Vajrayana teaching of Secret Mantra in a secret and brief manner.
For example, he taught the Guhyasamaja Tantra, also known as King
of Tantras, in Oddiyana, the Kalachakra Tantra at the great stupa of
Dhanyakataka in southern India, and so forth. In brief, in different
places where celestial beings, nagas, yakshas, gandharvas, or garudas
264
dwell, the Buddha taught the Vajrayana teaching of Secret Mantra to
benefit those who are of extraordinary faculties.
Upon passing into parinirvana, the Buddha prophesied, “Eight years
after my passing, in the Dhanakosha Lake in the northwestern part of
Oddiyana, a great being even greater than me, Padmasambhava, will
appear in this world.” Also, Vajradhara, one of the twelve founding
teachers of Dzogchen, conferred many tantras, including the Reverberation of Sound Tantra,
a at the time when the human life span was of
infinite years. This tantra contains a prophecy saying that during the
age of strife when the five kinds of degenerations become rampant,
Garab Dorje, Jampal Shenyen, Shri Singha, Jnanasutra, and others
will reveal this most profound and supreme dharma teaching, the
Great Perfection. To be specific, the tantra mentions, “The daughter of
Dhanakosha, her son Pramodavajra of no father...” that prophesies the
appearance of Garab Dorje; “Manjushrimitra,” which is a prophecy
of Jampal Shenyen; “Patron Shri Singha” predicts Shri Singha; and
“Jnanasutra” foretells Jnanasutra. In addition, Padmasambhava and
Vimalamitra would become the two greatest masters to spread the
clear light teaching of Dzogchen in the dark Land of Tibet.
Vimalamitra’s system of teachings follows the seventeen tantras of
the quintessential secret Heart Essence cycle, and within his tradition,
there are the four volumes of profound scriptures.25 These volumes
of text are summarized into one hundred nineteen essential pith
instructions. This is the cycle of Vima Nyingtig, which is also known as
the Old Nyingtig or Kama Nyingtig. On the other hand, based on tantras
such as the Blazing Clear Expanse Tantrab and the Six Essential Tantras
that Grant Liberation through Wearing,
c Padmasambhava transmitted his
own complete Heart Essence cycle to Khandro Yeshe Tsogyal within
seven years at the sacred site of the Zhotö Tidro Cave, as if giving a
a dra tal gyur gyi gyü (sgra thal ’gyur gyi rgyud); also known as Root Tantra that Proclaims Purity and
Emptiness.
b
long sal bar ma’i gyü (klong gsal ’bar ma’i rgyud).
c
tak drol snyingpo’i gyü drüg (btags grol snying po’i rgyud drug).
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 265
most precious jewel. These teachings are collectively called the Pema
Nyingtig, also known as the Khandro Nyingtig, New Nyingtig or Terma
Nyingtig. Some have said that all teachings of the Kama Nyingtig have
a long duration in this world, but their blessings are not so swift,
while the Terma Nyingtig’s blessings have a shorter duration but come
much quicker. Both the Kama Nyingtig transmitted by Vimalamitra
and the Terma Nyingtig transmitted by Padmasambhava are known as
the mother Nyingtig.
To explain the hidden meanings of these two mother Nyingtig texts, the
omniscient Longchen Rabjam composed the Lama Yangtig and Khandro
Yangtig. To fully explain the essential points of the Vima Nyingtig, he
composed the Lama Yangtig, which is subdivided into fifty-one sections
of teaching. To elucidate the essential points of the secret meaning of
Khandro Nyingtig, he composed the Khandro Yangtig. Because of this,
the Lama Yangtig and Khandro Yangtig are known as the child Nyingtig.
The two mother Nyingtig texts and two child Nyingtig texts constitute
the very famous Nyingtig Yabzhi, the Four Sections of the Heart Essence.
Additionally, the omniscient master Longchenpa also compiled most
of the profound secret instructions of the Heart Essence lineage into
one text called Zabmo Yangtig.
4.10: The spacious yet packed Lincoln Theater
In the Earlier Translation School
of Ngagyur Nyingma, there
are two ways of explaining the
Great Perfection: the profound
kusali approach and the extensive pandita approach. The
two mother Nyingtig and two
child Nyingtig texts follow the
style of the profound kusali approach. Regarding the extensive pandita approach, there
are the mother texts that are referred to as the seventeen tantras of the
266
quintessential secret Heart Essence cycle plus the Wrathful Black Mother
Tantraa and the Blazing Clear Expanse Tantra, nineteen tantras in total.
When it comes to the explanation of these tantras, it is not through
the original words of Buddha Vajradhara but the pith instructions of
the great vidyadharas, and these explanations are referred to as the
texts of the heirs. In the extensive pandita approach, both mother and
child texts are well explained as the fundamental texts, together with
the special words and instructions of the guru as a supplement. Good
examples of this would be the Seven Treasuresb and Trilogy of Restc
compiled by Omniscient Longchenpa.
The hidden meanings of Padmasambhava are primarily elucidated
through all the various terma teachings revealed by the hundred
great tertons and many other ones. Although Padmasambhava had
twenty-five disciples, including the king and the ministers, the guru
was most satisfied by the three great disciples, the great Khandro Yeshe
Tsogyal, the great Dharma King Trisong Detsen, and Nanam Dorje
Dudjom. In particular, Nanam Dorje Dudjom was Guru Rnpoche’s
most favorite and outstanding disciple, surpassing even the great
Dharma King Trisong Detsen. For this reason, the treasure teachings
on the Great Perfection revealed by the subsequent reincarnations
of Nanam Dorje Dudjom are more profound and complete than any
other terma revelations. To name a few, there are the Great Perfection
tantras Unimpeded Wisdom Intent of Samantabhadrad
revealed by Rigdzin
Godem and Wisdom Bindue
revealed by the great terton Lerab Lingpa.
These teachings on the Great Perfection are easy to understand and
possess immensely powerful blessings.
So, what will I be teaching at this time?
a
tröma nagmo’i gyü (khros ma nag mo’i rgyud), Skt. khrodkikalitantra.
b dzöd dun (mdzod bdun); Longchen Rabjam.
c ngal so kor sum (ngal gso skor gsum); Longchen Rabjam.
d
kunzang gongpa zang tal (kun bzang dgongs pa zang thal); Rigdzin Godem.
e yeshe tigle (ye shes thig le); Lerab Lingpa.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 267
It is the Chetsun Nyingtig, the text that summarizes the key points
of Padmasambhava’s pith instructions as its essence and follows the
teaching system of the great pandita Vimalamitra as its approach.
The origin of the Chetsun Nyingtig is as follows. Two hundred eight-two
years after Vimalamitra departed in his rainbow body to Mount Wutai,
he appeared to Chetsun Senge Wangchuk, personally accepted him as
his disciple, and transmitted all his empowerments and instructions to
him. The Great Chetsun did not attain ultimate realization until the age
of seventy-five; however, after his enlightenment, he did not encounter
suitable disciples. Thus, he stayed in this world for a long time until the
age of one hundred twenty-five. Eventually, he demonstrated nirvana,
his body dissolved into a mass of light, and he transformed into a
rainbow body. Through the supplication of Palgyi Lodro and other
dakinis, he reappeared in his rainbow light body and gave this Chetsun
Nyingtig pith instruction to the dakinis. This teaching was then taken
by the dakinis to their own realms and temporarily disappeared from
the human realm. Later, Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, the holder of the
seven special qualities of transmission26 in the Land of Tibet, revealed
this teaching through recollection of his previous life as Chetsun Senge
Wangchuk.
4.11: Chojé gazing upward into space
This teaching has three sections
of pith instructions. The first
section includes the empowerment that can bring those whose
minds are not yet tamed to maturity, practice methods of the
actual path, and an explanation
of the subsidiary aspects of the
path. The second section delineates the practice sadhana
of the complete and authentic
stages of the path to full awakening, from taking refuge and generating bodhicitta to the dedication of merit and recitation of auspicious
268
verses at the end. The third section explains in succession the preliminary practice, the actual practice, and the concluding practice. The
preliminary practice is further divided into three subdivisions, and
so are the actual practice of trekchö and the concluding practice of
tögal. This teaching is explained in three sections, each of which has
three subdivisions. As such, this teaching cycle is known as the Great
Chetsun’s Profound Essence of Vimalamitra in Three Sections.
Now, I am going to explain this teaching by following the root text.
First is to pay homage:
I prostrate to the deity of self-occurring awareness!
This sentence means that the dharmata or the true nature of your mind
is not a result generated by a cause, not the buddha arising from the
ordinary mind, and not the instruction based on scriptures. These are
the three features of the nature of mind. By recognizing the true face
of rigpa, you pay homage to the deity of self-occurring awareness.
Among the three sections of the text, the main body of the first has
two subdivisions: the history and the pith instructions for actual
practice. The first subdivision tells how the Great Chetsun gave this
teaching and how Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo would uphold this
teaching. As I have already covered this section in great detail during
the empowerment this morning, I will not elaborate further on it here.
As for the second subdivision, the pith instructions for actual practice,
because the teaching system of this cycle is to impart the oral instructions in the manner of empowerment, I therefore explained the content
of this section during the empowerment in the morning. Actually, when
it comes to receiving empowerment or practicing pith instructions,
there is no difference in terms of the first step. Generally speaking, the
first step is to give rise to the genuine mind of renunciation and detach
yourself from whatever you are attached to in samsara. To cultivate
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 269
such a mindset, there are two teaching approaches, the tradition of
Padmasambhava and that of Pandita Vimalamitra, respectively.
According to the tradition of Padmasambhava, a practitioner would
contemplate the rarity of a human existence endowed with freedoms
and advantages and the impermanence of life to eradicate attachment
to this life and reflect deeply on the infallibility of the karmic law of
cause and effect and the defects of samsara to uproot attachment to the
next life. Only if you have laid a solid foundation through adequate
training in these four contemplations that turn the mind away from
samsara can you embark on actual practice.
The teaching tradition of Vimalamitra follows the secret intent of
the wish-fulfilling jewel of the copper syllables and provides seven
methods for training the mind. When interpreting the hidden meaning
of this teaching, Omniscient Longchenpa’s Lama Yangtig takes a slightly
different approach from what is expounded in the three sections of
this teaching by the Great Chetsun. This time, we will follow the Great
Chetsun’s teaching to cultivate the mind of renunciation. How did the
master teach?
First Mind Training:
All compounded phenomena are impermanent, like water
bubbles.
This means that whatever conditioned phenomena arise from causes
and conditions, they are without exception of the nature of impermanence.
First of all, think about the outer universe in which sentient beings
dwell. Although that which forms our world—Mount Meru, the
four great continents, the eight subcontinents, and the ring of iron
mountains—appear to be grand, firm, and solid, they will someday be
engulfed in seven stages of fire and one of water. In the end, the whole
270
universe will become an empty space with nothing left. Considering
this, the outer universe is impermanent.
When you reflect on sentient beings dwelling in the universe, you will
find that they are also impermanent. For example, here in the human
world, there were many universal monarchs who had reached the very
pinnacle of power and material wealth. Also, in the holy land of India,
there appeared many great and influential kings, such as the three
Palas, the thirty-seven Chandras, and many others. However, they all
disappeared from the world, and now even their names are unheard
of. Therefore, the lords of sentient beings are impermanent by nature.
Moreover, think about the fact that the buddhas of the past like Krakucchanda, Kanakamuni, and Kashyapa all entered into parinirvana. Our
root teacher Buddha Shakyamuni, who possessed great loving kindness, compassion, and skillful means to benefit sentient beings, and
his inconceivably great noble retinue of bodhisattvas, shravakas, and
pratyekabuddhas all passed into nirvana one after another, leaving
only their teachings for this degenerate time. So, even the noble beings
cannot exist forever in this world.
If you ponder on the passing of time, you will see that time is also
impermanent. At the beginning of an eon is the Satya Yuga, age of
perfection; then there follows the Treta Yuga, age of possessing three,
and the Dvapara Yuga, age of possessing two,27 as well as the Kali Yuga,
age of strife. None of these ages endures forever, and all of them have
gone or will pass one after another. Our current time is also the same,
which passes by with the successive alternation of four seasons from
summer to autumn, autumn to winter, winter to spring, and spring to
summer. So, it is certainly impermanent. To be more specific, the four
times of today—this morning, now this afternoon, this evening, and
after midnight—will not persist either. If you even subtly observe the
passage of time, everything keeps changing moment by moment, and
nothing lasts for long.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 271
Similar to the examples of the outer universe and inner inhabitants
being impermanent, your own fragile bodies are certainly not longlasting and indestructible. Such being the case, you must evoke a firm
determination and resolve to engage in virtuous practice as soon as
possible. To achieve that, it is of particular necessity that you develop a
sense of impermanence by reflecting on your own existence. The way
of reflecting is to observe that death is certain, that the time of death is
uncertain, and that at the time of death, only the dharma can help you.
You must train in the sense of impermanence from the perspective of
these three points.
Death is certain means that everyone in this world will die in the end
and that no one can survive death. Disregarding religious followers
or scientists, any normal person knows this simple fact that he or she
will die. This point is clear to everyone. Such being the case, what you
need to carefully examine is the fact that the time of death is uncertain.
The time of death is uncertain teaches that all of you present here, no
matter who you are, need to develop the idea in your minds that, “I
will certainly die, but I don’t know when.” Without this concept, you
will never achieve real accomplishment in dharma practice, but will be
carried away by all sorts of trivial distractions in this life. Think about
all the generations of people who have come into this world; the time
of all their deaths was uncertain. Regarding those who were born a
hundred years ago, except a few, most have passed away. In the same
logic, you are surely not going to survive forever. Generally speaking,
all people living in this world, except for a few, will quite possibly
depart this life after a hundred years. This includes all of us present
here; and nearly all of us will be gone a hundred years from now. If
you think about your relatives and friends who were with you when
you were young, you will find that the majority of them have entered
their next lives. Just like them, you will die too, probably very soon.
Not only that, for those of you present today, it is hard to say whether
you will be alive this time next year. It is quite possible that many of
272
you will die this year, and no one can assure that death will only strike
the old; the young and children are also included. The thing is that no
one can say that one person will die at a certain time but not another.
Taking all factors into consideration, you can see that the next life is
not that far away. You are certain to die, and you are not sure whether
you can survive next month or even tomorrow. Death is just around
the corner.
4.12: The red mala in Chojé’s hand
At the time of death, only the dharma can help you means that upon death,
all advantages like wealth, possessions, power, status, and good looks
are of no use. Think about power and status. Upon death, even great
emperors who rule the entire world will have to enter the next life
alone by themselves, unable to take anyone to accompany them. The
same applies to wealth and possessions. Even if a person owns all
the wealth of the world, when death arrives, he or she cannot even
take a mouthful of food with them but has to leave everything behind.
Likewise, at the time of death, high status, a beautiful appearance, and
the like will not accompany you, and you will have to go to the next
life only with your positive and negative karma. At that time, what
is certainly beneficial is the positive karma you have accumulated,
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 273
whereas the negative deeds you have done will certainly bring you
harm. Therefore, now that you enjoy the freedom to practice the
dharma, you must expend all your efforts to forsake unwholesome
deeds and engage in wholesome deeds. It is important that you make
such a determination and act accordingly in body and speech.
Second Mind Training:
All states of happiness in samsara, although temporarily
appearing to be pleasurable, eventually lead to suffering, like
[eating a] poisonous fruit.
This instruction tells us that in the cyclic existence of samsara, all sorts
of things that may bring joy and pleasure are temporary. Although
they appear to be pleasant, they can only bring you suffering in the
end. This is the true reality in samsara. It is as if you eat poisonous
food: although it tastes sweet at first, it will take your life instead
of bringing you any benefit. Clinging to happiness in samsara is the
same as swallowing poison. If you fall prey to temporary pleasure and
indulge yourselves in negative deeds in pursuit of it, you are bound to
suffer endlessly in the future. Just like swallowing a poisonous fruit,
you will only experience suffering when the poison takes effect.
Third Mind Training:
The various circumstances that occur in life never reach a
conclusion, like pursuing a mirage.
People spend all their energy to experience some temporary pleasure
and do everything possible to avoid suffering. For the purpose of enjoying good food, wearing fine clothes, and owning abundant possessions,
they struggle and strive; but all these pursuits are meaningless. People
seeking these pleasures are no different from animals who thirst after
the water of a mirage and run desperately toward it, finding not a
drop of water. This is a crucial point you must understand. All sorts of
274
things in life—wealth and fame, peace and happiness, reputation and
prestige—are impermanent by nature, with no inherent existence at
all. Thus, you must cut off all attachment to them.
There are cases of people who had abundant wealth and possessions
last year but became a beggar this year. There are also examples of
people who suffered untold misery and hardship last year but became
quite rich and happy this year. So, there is no need for you to be happy
about having wealth or feel sorrow for being poor. Instead, you should
recognize that everything is impermanent. For instance, determine if
wealth is that useful. Suppose one of you owns several billion dollars
while another has only ten thousand dollars. Despite the difference of
your assets, the food, clothing, housing, and transportation that you
need are really limited, so even if you possess much more money than
others, you won’t be able to use all of it on yourself. Therefore, the
assets you possess that are worth billions of dollars are only a numeric
concept that won’t bring much meaning to your life. Therefore, it is
pointless to crave desperately for wealth.
The pursuit of happiness in samsara will find no end, however hard
you try. But sadly, most people in the world struggle day and night
only for food, clothing, housing, and transportation. As a matter of
fact, if you have accumulated enough merit, you will easily succeed in
what you do; if you lack merit, however hard you try, you will not get
rid of poverty, and all your effort for gaining wealth will be in vain.
Fourth Mind Training:
The activities of this life are always pointless, like the good
and bad dreams in a single night.
Whatever you do in this life, such as fighting with enemies, caring for
family members, doing business, or farming, is as pointless as what
happens in a dream during sleep.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 275
This tells us the truth that life is like a dream. Some people live
happy lives from birth, while some undergo all kinds of hardships
and miseries throughout their lives. But if you think about it, all these
experiences are no different from what happens in a dream. All the
joys and sorrows in last night’s dream have now become merely a
memory, with nothing tangible to be found. Similarly, the ups and
downs that you have experienced since you came into this world
have all become the past. From this perspective, the experiences of
waking life and those in a dream do not have the slightest difference.
In the same manner, all the pleasures and sadness you are going to
experience in the future are no different from what will happen in
tomorrow night’s dream. Although they appear to exist, the moment
they have disappeared, they will have become merely a memory of
the past, with nothing tangible to be found.
4.13: Chojé’s eyes piercing, his voice sonorous and forceful, his words enlightening
276
Fifth Mind Training:
The result of sublime liberation is that suffering never returns,
like an individual cured of smallpox.
Some will probably wonder, “If all kinds of happiness and fame in
samsara have no substance, is there anything that has significant
meaning that should be put into practice?” If the result of liberation is
attained, such as the bodhisattva bhumis or buddhahood, this state
of happiness will never decline and is forever free from suffering. For
instance, there is an infectious disease called smallpox. Once you are
cured of it, you will never get infected again. In the same manner,
once you achieve liberation, you will never again experience suffering.
Therefore, you must try as soon as you can to apply and practice the
skillful means toward attaining liberation.
Sixth Mind Training:
Oral instructions from a sublime master are the path that
leads to the palace of liberation, like a perfect staircase.
This mind training means that the way to free yourself from samsara
and achieve liberation cannot be accomplished through just your own
efforts. It can only be learned and accomplished by relying on the
teachings of sublime masters. For instance, if you want to go to the top
of a high building, you won’t be able to make it without climbing the
stairs or taking an elevator. In the same way, without the instructions
from a sacred master, even if you study the scriptures and other
dharma texts, you won’t be able to fully understand them with just
your own intelligence. Therefore, instructions from a teacher are of
vital importance. If there is no qualified teacher to teach you, you will
not know how to abstain from negativity and practice virtue. You
would be totally at a loss, as ignorant as animals. Only when you are
accepted and guided by virtuous teachers will you get to know the
extraordinary method that not only brings peace and happiness within
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 277
this life, but also leads to joy and happiness life after life. Such a teacher
is hard to encounter, and even a hundred thousand wish-fulfilling
jewels cannot compare with his or her value.
There are three ways to please a teacher while relying on him or her:
To practice virtue and abandon negative deeds, let go of attachment
to this life, and focus solely on the pursuit of liberation is the best
way of pleasing the teacher. To follow the teacher’s instructions and
wholeheartedly devote yourself to the activities of the teacher, including being sent on a mission, is the middling way of relying on the
teacher. The minimum way to please your teacher is to offer all of
what you have to the teacher and the teacher’s dharma center and to
participate in all kinds of virtuous activities initiated by the teacher,
such as building buddha statues. All three ways are indispensable to
please and serve your teacher.
Let me reiterate the three ways of following the guru. When encountering a guru who is as precious as a wish-fulfilling jewel, it is best
that you follow his or her instructions to forsake negative deeds and
engage in virtuous practice. If you are unable to accomplish that, then
you should earnestly do whatever the master needs you to do, such as
building shrine halls, making statues of buddhas, printing scriptures,
erecting stupas, and so on. If this is also beyond your ability, at the very
least, you should generously offer all of your possessions to the teacher
and his or her dharma center. If you fail to serve the teacher through
any of the three ways, the fact that you have obtained the precious
human rebirth and encountered a qualified guru will be completely
wasted.
For my part, I don’t think you should show excessive devotion and
reverence to me, a person you’ve just met for the first time and don’t
even know if I have faults or merit. The masters you should serve
and work for with great veneration are those from your own dharma
278
centers who always stay with you and can bring you true benefit, or
those who reside in this country and are familiar to you.
Seventh Mind Training:
Nonconceptual concentration is the basis for the emergence
of all states of samadhi, like a fertile field.
This is to say that if you want to achieve the same state of samadhi
as those attained by buddhas and bodhisattvas, you must first have
mastery over your own mind and abide in meditative concentration.
Thus, you must make an effort to practice meditation.
The instructions on the seven common mind trainings are now complete.
The morning session of empowerment was scheduled to be two hours,
but since the last part of the ritual failed to be completed in due time, it
was extended for an extra half hour. That was really out of my control.
So, please forgive me. Now I will end this session exactly after two
hours. There is nothing left. You must be happy about this. Now, it’s
time to go home and sleep. (Laughs)
4.14: Khenpo Sodargye attending Chojé
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 279
Two Profound Practices
On July 11th, Chojé conferred the empowerments of Peaceful Manjushri and
Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma. During the empowerments, Rinpoche gave a concise
teaching:
Both the Peaceful Manjushri and Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma cycles have their
own auxiliary teachings, but they are very few in number, not as many
as other terma teachings in the Nyingma tradition.
4.15: Chojé speaking with a microphone
In terms of its content, the Peaceful Manjushri provides the stage-bystage instructions for the complete path to full awakening, including the
practical and skillful methods for the preliminary and main practices. It
can be explained by combining the teachings from the outer aspect, the
prophecies from the inner aspect, and the instructions from the secret
aspect. It can also be taught according to the tantras, the Seven-Line
Prayer, or the shastras.
Basically, most of my dharma compositions were completed in my
teenage years. In general, they were all composed because of the
280
requests of others; and once they were done, I’d entrust them to the
one who made the request without ever bothering to take care of
them. Nonetheless, some of my disciples have collected my works
of composition and compiled them into books, which now comprise
four volumes. They have been made into wood carvings, a traditional
Tibetan handicraft for printing scriptures, while their circulation is
mainly through modern printing technologies.
Among my works, some of them, such as the Peaceful Manjushri cycle,
are classified into “teachings composed in the Han Chinese region.”
The Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma cycle includes a series of teachings, such
as the ritual for confessing and restoring damaged and broken vows
that is used in the extensive practice, as well as others like prayers
of subjugating activity and fire offering that were composed at the
request of Gyalwa Rinpoche and the Nechung protector. This category
of teachings, plus Accomplishing All Activity: A Daily Practice of the Great
and Glorious Dorje Drolo, a terma that I revealed at Paro Taktsang and
the Quintessence of Oceanic Prayers of Aspiration that I composed at the
Vajra Seat, are all classified into “teachings composed in India.”
4.16: A spectacle with western disciples
receiving the dharma
This time, I have given you the
transmission of the Peaceful Manjushri and Vajrakilaya Gurkhukma,
which can be found in the text in
your hands. Now that you have
received the transmission, when
you put them into actual practice,
remember that there are three indispensable conditions you must
possess. They are faith, compassion, and the view on emptiness. First, it is essential for you to develop
the three types of faith, which are vivid faith in the jewel of the Buddha, eager faith in the jewel of the dharma, and confident faith in the
jewel of the sangha. Second, you must cultivate loving kindness and
compassion toward all sentient beings who are experiencing endless
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 281
suffering and wish them to be free of suffering. Third, whether it
comes to the practice of the generation stage, completion stage, or the
Great Perfection, you must be equipped with the supreme view on
emptiness that transcends all extremes. With these three prerequisites,
when you engage in the actual practice, you should abide in the view
of primordial purity through the practice of trekchö, elicit the unobstructed power of spontaneous presence through the practice of tögal,
and then chant these two liturgies.
The liturgy used for practice should be endowed with the three
essentials. What are they? The source of the liturgy should be combined
with the tantra; the tantra should be combined with the means of
attainment; and the means of attainment should be combined with
the guru’s pith instructions. Although some guidance originally exists
in the tantra, without pith instructions from a sublime guru and by
merely referring to the tantra, it is hard to put those teachings into
actual practice. That is why you need a complete sadhana for practice.
The means of attainment should follow the tradition of the sublime
gurus. Take the Nyingma teachings, for example. Any practice of
the Nyingma School should be in accordance with the traditions of
Dorje Drag, Mindrolling, and Palri Monasteries in Upper Tibet, or
Kathok, Palyul, and Dzogchen Monasteries in Lower Tibet. Moreover,
traditions should be followed by the means of the transmission of direct
experience with the master, meaning seeing first-hand the guru’s entire
process of reciting and practicing. Otherwise, to merely go through
the procedure by casually following the general principles will fail to
grasp the essential meaning.
Or simply speaking, you can chant these two liturgies by following
the convention of any school, such as Gelug, Nyingma, Sakya, Kagyu,
Jonang, and others. Even if you do not understand the exact meaning,
you can just chant the liturgy and then recite as much as possible the
mantra of Manjushri, om ah ra pa tsa na dhih or the mantra of Vajrakilaya,
282
om benzar kili kilaya hung phat. In the end, make dedication accordingly.
Practicing the two liturgies in this way is acceptable.
The Trip Was Almost Canceled
Previously, when we were at Rocky Mountain Dharma Center, Chojé’s health
was already declining. After we arrived in Napa Valley, he became so sick that he
could barely fall asleep at night. As Rinpoche’s disciples, we got really worried
and had no idea what to do. We discussed the issue many times in private,
because there were still a lot of places to visit and many teachings to give, but
if we continued, we were afraid that Chojé’s health would be compromised.
Finally, on the morning of July 12th, we had a meeting with Yidzhin Norbu to
see if the rest of the schedule should be canceled.
4.17: Kay Henry now
Learning our concerns, Khenpo Rinpoche
did not say anything. He called the organizers of the trip and suggested we discuss
this issue together. Some people said that
because the itinerary for the world tour had
already been publicized globally and the
site for each teaching had been booked, the
trip should not be canceled. Others said it
would be too tiring for Chojé to continue this
dharma trip and that his health was much
more important than anything else, so it was
better to cancel the balance of the schedule.
There were two conflicting opinions, and each side stuck to their own idea
without compromise.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 283
Then, we sent for Kay Henry and consulted her opinion, because she was
delegated by His Holiness Penor Rinpoche and Gyatrul Rinpoche as our western
liaison and organizer. Hearing the issue, she almost fainted, because it had
taken her months to contact the different centers and prepare the entire trip,
and it had not been easy for her to raise funds for our plane tickets and all other
expenses.
She replied from her heart, “The health of His Holiness is our primary
concern, and if it is necessary, we can immediately cancel the rest of the itinerary.
But I know that hundreds of thousands of people are looking forward to meeting
Rinpoche and have made all sorts of preparations for his arrival to teach the
dharma. Therefore, if there is anything we can do to improve the quality of the
meals or to help improve Rinpoche’s health, please let us know. We will try
our best to make any improvement so that the trip can continue and numerous
sentient beings and devotees can benefit from Rinpoche’s presence.”
Hearing her words, Yidzhin Norbu fell silent for a while and then discussed
the matter with us again. After another ten minutes or so of discussion, he said
firmly to us, “I will continue my trip.”
The Second Lecture on Chetsun Nyingtig
That afternoon, during the second session of teaching the Chetsun Nyingtig,
Yidzhin Norbu taught the following:
The teaching you are receiving right now is the Great Chetsun’s Profound
Essence of Vimalamitra in Three Sections. The first section has three parts:
the empowerment that brings those whose minds are not yet tamed to
maturity, the actual path, and the subsidiary aspects of the path.
284
The Empowerment that Brings the Mind to Maturity
This part has already been completed earlier.
The Actual Path
The actual path is divided into two subsections: the preliminaries and
the actual practice.
The Preliminaries
The preliminary practices include the common or outer preliminaries
and the uncommon or inner preliminaries.
Among them, the intention of the common preliminaries is to cultivate
in the mind of the practitioner the attitude of renunciation to completely
let go of attachment to all mundane activities of this life through the
aforementioned seven common stages of mind training. Before you
can develop the true aspiration to accomplish the benefits for future
lifetimes, first and foremost, you must train your mind in this way.
The uncommon preliminaries have two subdivisions: taking refuge
and generating bodhicitta.
Taking Refuge
In the empty space in front of you, visualize a mass of light with
Vimalamitra in its center, surrounded by a vast assembly of all buddhas
and the retinue of the Three Roots. This is the refuge field. Those who
take refuge include you and all sentient beings in the world, the great
gathering of beings who sit in front of the refuge field with great
devotion. The manner of taking refuge is in terms of the body, you
respectfully fold your palms; in terms of the speech, you respectfully
chant the excellent qualities of the refuge field; and in terms of the mind,
you reverently and wholeheartedly evoke faith. Like this, making a
special vow or pledge in a reverent manner is called taking refuge.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 285
4.18: The scene of Chojé giving the teaching at Lincoln Theater
There are two approaches to taking refuge: the approach in accordance
with the general Sutrayana tradition and the approach that is specific
only to the extraordinary Dzogchen tradition. The first approach is
to think, “I have no root teacher other than the Buddha, and I accept
the Buddha as my only teacher; the only dharma I will practice is
what the Buddha taught, and I will never engage in other practices;
the only companions I will have are the followers of the Buddha, the
noble sangha and people who share the same view and conduct as me,
and I will not befriend any others nor follow their view and conduct.”
Taking refuge in such a way by recognizing the Buddha as the root
teacher, the dharma as the path, and the sangha as your companions
is called causal refuge. When you fully attain ultimate buddhahood
through relying on the teachers who instruct you on the path, the
dharma that is the path, and the sangha as the companions on the
path, at that time, it is called resultant refuge. Make such a supreme vow
in your mind, and repeat the refuge verse one hundred, one thousand,
ten thousand, or one hundred thousand times. This is the practice of
taking refuge in accordance with the general Sutrayana tradition.
The second approach specific to the uncommon Dzogchen tradition is
to recognize the nature of mind, that its empty essence is dharmakaya,
286
its luminous nature is sambhogakaya, and their inseparability or unity
as compassion is nirmanakaya. In other words, the three kayas abide
inseparably, inherently, and primordially in your mind. To maintain
this view is the approach to taking refuge by following the tradition of
the Great Perfection.
With such recognition, recite:
ah kadak ting sal chökyi ku
Ah The inner luminous depth of original purity
is dharmakaya,
lhundrub rigtsal longchod dzok
The spontaneously present, unobstructed power of
awareness is sambhogakaya,
yermé tukjé trulpé kur
And their indivisibility as compassion is
the nirmanakaya.
rangngo shépé kyab su chi
Recognizing this innate nature, I go for refuge.
If the verse is translated into English or other languages, the power
of authentic words carried in its original language will lose its effect.
Since this verse was blessed by the Great Chetsun in the Tibetan
language, you should recite it with Tibetan phonetics on the basis of
understanding its meaning.
Generally speaking, all liturgy verses and aspiration and supplication
prayers should be recited in the words and languages blessed by those
who have attained the power of authentic words, because only these
words carry blessings. For example, if chanting in Tibetan would
bestow great blessings, you should chant precisely in the Tibetan
language or phonetics. Similarly, if chanting in English would contain
great blessings, you should chant in English; if the Sanskrit language
is blessed, then chanting in Sanskrit is suggested. Take the hundred
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 287
syllable mantra of Vajrasattva as an example. Tibetans need to recite it
in Sanskrit; so do the Chinese, the Indians, and the British, because if
it is translated into Tibetan, Chinese, or other languages, the original
blessings carried in Sanskrit will be lost.
Although the sadhanas in different languages are the same regarding
their interpretation of the meaning, since the sadhana of the Chestun
Nyingtig was composed and blessed in the Tibetan language, you need
to recite it in Tibetan or Tibetan phonetics. This is the same for the
Peaceful Manjushri you received yesterday. The sadhana of Peaceful
Manjushri should be recited in Tibetan or Tibetan phonetics because
it was blessed by Bodhisattva Manjushri with the Tibetan language.
As for its practice manual, Placing Buddhahood within Reach, there is no
difference for it to be studied in different languages, and the key is to
understand its meaning. If you can understand its meaning in English,
then use the English text; if Tibetan helps you better understand it,
then read the Tibetan text. As long as you can understand the meaning,
there is no need to stick to a specific language. This principle applies
to other teachings, sadhanas, and practice manuals.
Then, speaking of the commitments after taking refuge, from the
moment of taking refuge in the Buddha, you must pray wholeheartedly
to the Buddha and not any other; from the moment you take refuge
in the dharma, you must be kind and compassionate to all sentient
beings and never harm them; and from the moment you take refuge in
the sangha, you must devote yourself to respectfully serving the guru,
the sangha, and other supreme objects of veneration.
The merit and benefits of taking refuge are as follows. Anyone who
takes refuge in the Three Jewels will neither be propelled by negative
karma, nor give in to afflictive emotions, such as desire, hatred, and
ignorance, not to speak of being influenced by demonic forces and evil
spirits. In this life, you will enjoy longevity and good health, bountiful
resources and possessions, and dignified appearance. Everything will
go smoothly, whatever you wish will be fulfilled, and you will never
288
encounter any obstacles. There are many more benefits for this life.
In future lives, you will never be born into the lower realms, but will
journey forward from happiness to happiness until you attain the
great bodhi, the fruition of buddhahood.
Generating Bodhicitta
Contemplate in this way, “How wonderful it would be if all sentient
beings who are tormented by karma, afflictive emotions, and suffering
could be free from them!” To develop such intensely unbearable
compassion is the compassion that focuses on the benefit of others.
However, merely having great empathy for them is not enough; you
need to make the vow, “I alone shall bring all sentient beings to the
result of perfect enlightenment, the state of everlasting liberation and
happiness.” This is the wisdom focused on perfect enlightenment. To
have the intention with these two qualities of compassion and wisdom
is to have generated aspirational bodhicitta. Then, contemplate further,
“In order to attain buddhahood, I will train in generosity, discipline,
patience, diligence, meditative concentration, and the wisdom that
truly realizes selflessness.” With such a commitment, you engage in the
six paramitas and myriads of bodhisattva acts, which apply practical
bodhicitta. This is the approach to generating bodhicitta in accordance
with the general Sutrayana tradition.
In terms of the uncommon Great Perfection, you must think in this
way, “All sentient beings innately possess the buddha nature, but
failing to recognize it, they miserably wander in samsara. How pitiful!
In order to bring forth their innate wisdom, I will meditate on the
unsurpassed view of great placement.” Without departing from such
intention, enter the meditative concentration of ultimate reality. This
is how to generate bodhicitta through the extraordinary approach of
the Great Perfection.
While remaining in the state of such an intention, chant the following
verse to generate bodhicitta:
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 289
ho lo-ur trulpe drowa kun
Ho So that all temporarily confused beings
dodne namdak ying kyi ngang
May self-liberate in the perfectly pure, original dhatu
yeshe rigpe rangdrol chir
Through wisdom awareness,
chokzhak chenpor semkyed do
I shall cultivate the bodhicitta of resting
in great placement.
Chant this verse as much as you can one hundred, one thousand, ten
thousand, or one hundred thousand times.
The training of bodhicitta is to engage solely in activities to benefit
others with the firm intention of loving others more than yourself.
Through such pure intention and conduct, you strive wholeheartedly
and constantly to be of benefit to others. This is the training of a
bodhisattva.
An extensive elaboration of the benefits of bodhicitta is given in the
Sutra of the Great Bounteousness of the Buddhas, and through over a
hundred analogies, you can gain a comprehensive understanding of
its benefits. For a moderate introduction, you should study the first
chapter of A Guide to the Bodhisattva Way of Life. Even if you cannot
fully comprehend the value of bodhicitta delineated in these two
texts, you should always remember its three advantages mentioned
in the Aspiration of Maitreya:
a Once bodhicitta arises in your mind,
all the entranceways of taking rebirth in the lower realms of hell
beings, hungry ghosts, and animals are blocked; you will effortlessly
experience happiness, renown, and peace in the higher realms of
humans and celestial beings; and the ultimate buddhahood that is
beyond aging and death is readily attainable.
a
jampa’i mon lam (byams pa’i smon lam); Maitreya.
290
4.19: Chojé’s contagious smile
At the conclusion of a meditation session, whether taking refuge or
generating bodhicitta, visualize that all the noble beings in the field of
refuge melt into light, which dissolves into you, completely purifying
all your karmic obscurations and downfalls. Rest single-pointedly in
this state, and then dedicate the merit.
The Actual Practice
The guru yoga practice mentioned in the Chetsun Nyingtig has an
extraordinary feature that makes it far superior to any other guru
yoga. This guru yoga practice alone is endowed with the content of
the generation stage and all the pith instructions of the completion
stage and also clearly presents the guidelines of Dzogchen practice
regarding the ground, path, and result of the Great Perfection.
Regarding taking refuge and generating bodhicitta, I talked about
them yesterday during the empowerment, and today I reiterated with
a more elaborate and clearer explanation. For these topics, you male
and female lay Buddhists and monastics in particular, should study
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 291
and contemplate carefully. If there is anything unclear, you can ask
me afterward, and I will explain further.
Now, I will give the teaching on the actual path. I will read the text
and explain part by part, along with a simultaneous interpretation.
Then, the guru’s blessings must be brought onto the path. Stay
in strict retreat in an extremely secluded place and purify
your being by means of the preliminaries.
When practicing guru yoga, the first step is to engage in the practice of
taking refuge and generating bodhicitta in a quiet and secluded place
so that your mind can be purified.
Expel the stale wind and allow the mind to relax.
By expelling stale wind three times, visualize that all disease and
karmic obscurations are purified. Settle your mind single-pointedly,
and let it rest or abide in a relaxed manner in its natural state.
Within original purity, visualize oneself as Guru Singhe
Shora, whose nature is the inseparability of the innate deity
and the master.
Resting in the realization that all phenomena are empty and primordially pure by nature, visualize yourself as Singhe Shora, inseparable
from the innate deity and the guru.
In the aspect of a yogic practitioner, one sits upon a lion
throne, lotus, and sun disc, is semi-wrathful and attractive,
reddish-brown in color, and rests in the mudra of evenness in
the full-lotus posture.
292
Then, visualize in this way: Upon a lion throne, in its center of a sun
disc on a lotus seat, Singhe Shora appears in the yogi’s clothing. He
has both a wrathful and charismatic demeanor, displaying a wrathful
expression with a scowl and a charming manner with a smile. His
entire body is reddish-brown, his hands are in the mudra of evenness,
and he sits cross-legged in the full-lotus posture.
He is adorned with silks, jewels, and bone ornaments.
Besides having the long scarf, one of the ornaments of sambhogakaya,
his body is bare, adorned with bone ornaments. He wears a bone
crown on his head, encircled by thirty-two strings of bone ornaments,
with hair knotted in the middle. Around his throat, he wears sixteen
strings of bone ornaments, corresponding to the number of petals at
the throat chakra, ornamented by tassels and lotus flowers. The bone
ornaments at the heart form the shape of a vajra at the front of his
body and a lotus at the back. At the heart, there are eight strings of
bone ornaments that equal the number of petals at the heart chakra,
weaved together through strings of bone beads. The middle part of the
upper body wears a scarf from shoulder to armpit, adorned by jewels
and silks. At the navel, there are sixty-four strings of bone ornaments
that correspond to the number of petals at the navel chakra, each of
which forms the shape of a crossed vajra. He wears an anraka on the
lower part of his body. Visualize Singhe Shora in a red form like this.
From each pore of the body, miniature wrathful ones with vajra wisdom fire emanate to incinerate all maras and obstacle
creators.
Visualize that from each pore of his body, vajra wisdom fire and
tiny wrathful deities emanate. Saying vajra or indestructible, it means
being able to destroy everything but not being destroyed by anything.
a
ang rag; yogi skirt.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 293
Visualize that through this emanation, all the demonic forces and
hindrances are completely incinerated.
The assembly of the masters of the three lineages, the dakas,
and the dakinis encircle one.
Visualize surrounding him are the gurus of the three lineages of transmission, the direct mind transmission of the buddhas, the symbolic
indication transmission of the vidyadharas, and the oral transmission
of spiritual masters, as well as dakas and dakinis.
A swirl of joy spins rapidly within the dharmodayaa between
his eyebrows.
Visualize that in the middle of his eyebrows is the source of dharma
in the shape of a tetrahedron, with one corner pointing upward and
the other two pointing left and right. Its base comes to a subtle point
where it joins the central channel. Within the source of dharma is a
swirl of joy that spins rapidly in a counterclockwise direction.
In the sky before him, is Vimalamitra, joyfully seated as the
lord of the family.
Visualize in the space in front, about a foot in distance, directly before
Singhe Shora’s eyebrows is Vimalamitra, pure white in color, with one
face, two arms, and his hands in the mudra of evenness, holding a
kapala filled with ambrosia. He wears three pieces of monastic robes,
and a blue, silken upper garment, or a blue pandita-style secret robe.
There is a white syllable ah close to the tip of his nose.
Imagine the universe filled with undulating rainbows, light
rays, and bindus.
a
chö jung (chos ’byung), Skt. dharmodaya; source of dharma.
294
Visualize that the entire world of appearance and existence, animate
and inanimate, is filled with rainbows, light rays, bindus, and so forth.
Vimalamitra sits in the center of this brilliant rainbow light.
Invite and dissolve the wisdom beings.
Invite all wisdom deities, buddhas, and bodhisattvas dwelling in the
dharmadhatu to come forth. Especially, invoke countless Vimalamitra’s
in white, yellow, red, green, and blue to come from Mount Wutai and
countless Chetsun’s in white, yellow, red, green, and blue to come
from the dakini pure realms. Then, all the Vimalamitra’s descend and
dissolve into the Vimalamitra visualized in the space in front, and all
the Chetsun’s descend and dissolve into yourself.
4.20: The mala hung on Chojé’s ear when he wasn’t using it
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 295
Then make this supplication to the master before you:
Now, you need to pray to Vimalamitra seated in the space in front of
you.
odsal nangzhi tarchin ne
Having perfected the four visions of clear light,
rigpa migyur ku ngar zheng
Your awareness arose as the unchanging five kayas.
jalu phochen dangme zuk
Pure form of the great transference rainbow kaya,
chimé bimamitra kye
O deathless Vimalamitra,
dak la tukje tser gong ne
Look upon me with loving kindness and compassion
ngon sum jinlab deng tsol chik
And immediately bestow blessings of direct realization.
Recite this prayer one hundred, one thousand, ten thousand, or one
hundred thousand times. As emphasized earlier, please recite in
Tibetan phonetics.
om ah hung guru bimalamitra hung hung
Om ah hung means being inseparable from the body, speech, and
mind of all buddhas. Guru bimalamitra is Sanskrit and means “guru,
immaculate friend.”28 Hung hung is to entreat Vimalamitra to bestow
upon you both the common and uncommon siddhis. This mantra
needs to be chanted hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands, and
hundreds of thousands of times.
296
When meditative experience dawns, receive the four empowerments. At the end, imagine that he melts into light and [...]
When concluding a meditation session or when unexcelled faith and
respect for the guru arise, receive the four empowerments. The method
of visualization to receive the four empowerments is as follows.
Visualize that from the syllable om in the guru’s forehead, white light
rays like moonlight radiate and dissolve into your forehead. Thereby,
the obscurations of your body and the channels are purified, and
you are authorized to practice the stage of generation. You receive
the elaborate vase empowerment, so the ability to realize the state of
fruition as the nirmanakaya has been placed in your mind stream.
Then visualize that from the syllable ah in the guru’s throat, infinite red
light rays and strings of vowels and consonants of ah li ka li radiate and
dissolve into your throat. Thereby, the obscurations of your speech and
winds are purified, and you are authorized to recite the secret mantra.
You receive the unelaborate secret empowerment, so the ability to
realize the state of fruition as the sambhogakaya has been placed in
your mind stream.
Next, visualize that from the syllable hung in the heart center of the
guru, infinite blue light rays and boundless clear blue ah syllables
radiate and dissolve into your heart center. Thereby, the obscurations
of your mind and bindus are purified, and you are authorized to
meditate upon the bindu. You receive the extremely unelaborate
wisdom empowerment, so the ability to realize the state of fruition as
the dharmakaya is placed in your mind stream.
Finally, visualize that from the guru’s three places and the precious
enclosure within his heart, a five-colored light sphere about one inch in
diameter radiates and dissolves into your three places and heart center.
Thereby, the hindrances that obscure wisdom are purified. You receive
the ultimately unelaborate precious word empowerment, so the ability
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 297
to realize the state of fruition as the ultimate svabhavikakaya is placed
in your mind stream.
[...] dissolves into the center of swirl of joy between the
eyebrows, becoming a pea-sized white bindu with the syllable
“ah.”
4.21: Chojé on a well-adorned throne with
fine offering objects
After receiving the four empowerments, visualize that Vimalamitra in the sky in front
turns into light and dissolves
into the swirl of joy that spins
rapidly in a counterclockwise
direction in the center of the
bindu between your eyebrows.
Here, you need to visualize the
white syllable ah that represents
Vimalamitra to be as tiny and
clear as being drawn by a single hair. Continue visualizing yourself
as Singhe Shora, imagine Vimalamitra in the space in front, and
supplicate him.
The entire method of visualization to receive the four empowerments
is the meditation of the generation stage regarding praying to the guru.
If you are fond of elaborations, make offerings, praise, and
so forth.
If you prefer elaborate practices, after receiving the empowerments,
you can visualize the guru at the point between your eyebrows and
make offerings, sing praises, and so forth to him.
Meditate for a long time on the rainbow-like vivid presence
of the deity.
298
Maintain meditative concentration in the nature of reality, where the
deity appears like a rainbow without true, inherent existence.
Afterward, focus your awareness on the bindu. If you are
conducting an elaborate practice, then with a melodious
voice or in a casual manner, chant “om ah hung benzar guru
singhe shora siddhi hung hung hung.”
Visualize yourself as Singhe Shora and direct your awareness at the
bindu adorned with the syllable ah at the point between the eyebrows.
Om ah hung benzar guru refers to Guru Singhe Shora or Chetsun Senge
Wangchuk, who is inseparable from all buddhas of the three times in
terms of body, speech, and mind. Singhe shora siddhi hung hung hung
is to invoke the guru to bestow the sublime siddhis, both common
and uncommon. This mantra needs to be recited hundreds, thousands,
tens of thousands, and hundreds of thousands of times.
For the above meditation, as you place your concentration on Vimalamitra in front of you and pray, this is the in-front visualization.
From visualize yourself as Singhe Shora to recite wholeheartedly in the state
of realization that all appearances, sound, and thoughts are by nature the
deity, mantra, and dharmata, respectively is the self-visualization. These
are the primary meditation instructions for the generation stage. These
two stages of meditation, self-visualization and in-front visualization,
can be accomplished by only practicing guru yoga.
If you prefer an elaborate practice, you use the sadhanaa on Singhe
Shora as the basis, in which prayers of guru yoga are chanted. During
the practice, you can engage diligently in the intensive practice on
the stages of approach and accomplishment according to the content
described in the second section of the text.
a
kunzang don gyi trinlé trik su deb pa yeshe lam zang (kun bzang don gyi phrin las khrigs su bsdebs pa
ye shes lam bzang); also known as the Excellent Path of Wisdom, yeshe lam zang (ye she lam bzang)
and more often as simply Döntrin (don phrin).
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 299
Finally, focus your mind on gentle vajra recitation.
Do the vajra recitation slowly and focus your mind on it. When you
inhale, visualize that the breath transforms into a white syllable om. As
you hold the breath inside your body, it transforms into a red syllable
ah and abides in the nature of sound and syllable. As you exhale, the
breath becomes a blue syllable hung and is expelled with the sound of
your recitation. Visualize in this way continuously with the exhalation
and inhalation; this is called vajra recitation.
When feeling weary, imagine that light rays radiate from
the bindu between your eyebrows, filling all the infinite pure
lands. Invoke blessings from the oceanic objects of refuge
residing there, especially the masters of the clear light Heart
Essence tradition. Imagine that their kayas, syllables, and
hand emblems blessed by their three secrets descend like
pouring rain, dissolving into the bindu and filling your entire
body.
Visualize that light rays shine from the bindu in between your eyebrows
and invite all buddhas and bodhisattvas who dwell in the countless
pure lands of the ten directions, especially the lineage masters of
the secret Nyingtig lineage, from Dharmakaya Samantabhadra to the
present root guru. They shower down like rain in the forms of mudras
in terms of body, syllables in terms of speech, and hand emblems in
terms of mind and dissolve into the bindu between your eyebrows,
blessing your being.
Again, light radiates out to fill all the infinite impure realms
in their entirety. Imagine that the animate and inanimate, the
universe and inhabitants, become all-pervasive pure lands.
Then, visualize that light rays again radiate to all impure six realms,
both the outer worlds and the beings within. In this way, all defiled
300
worlds and the deluded beings within are purified and transformed
into the display of pure kayas and wisdoms.
Imagine that the entire universe and inhabitants gather,
dissolving into your body. The body then dissolves into the
bindu between the eyebrows, becoming extremely luminous.
Resting the mind there for an extended period of time gives rise
to a limitless samadhi that pacifies the waves of conceptual
thoughts. Finally, the bindu disappears like a rainbow in
space. Rest in nonconceptual awareness.
The above is meditation guidance for the stage of completion. Specifically, the visualization of the bindu radiating light rays to make
offerings to the buddhas and bodhisattvas and to purify the obscurations of sentient beings in the six realms are the completion stage with
signs. The visualization of the bindu dissolving like a rainbow fading in
the sky and the practitioner abiding in the non-referential meditative
concentration are the completion stage without signs.
These are the instructions for a concise practice, which summarizes all
the essential points of meditation for the generation and completion
stages in all tantras and the sadhana category into one pith instruction.
Next, I am going to cover all the key points of the view, meditation,
conduct, and result of the Great Perfection practice of trekchö, which
reveals primordial purity. That will be the teaching for tomorrow.
His Power to Shift Others’ Minds
Very early on the morning of July 13th, Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche and
entourage rode by car to the French Consulate in San Francisco to straighten out
visa issues for entering France. Although the consulate officials had received
our passports, our letters of invitation, and other relevant materials, they still
requested that all six of us Tibetans come in person to apply for the visas.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 301
What happened that day was somewhat unbelievable. Even after all these
years, Kay Henry can still vividly recollect what happened, as she narrates
here:
I had been working on getting those visas for months, and the consulate
seemed determined not to grant them. On that day, when the consulate
personnel had to unlock the door when we arrived, the look on everyone’s
faces was priceless when they saw six Tibetans in robes.
I went over everything with the person at the window, and he seemed
quite determined to make the whole process impossible or, at best, very
difficult. At one point, I looked back at Khenpo Rinpoche, and he made
eye contact with me.
At the very same time, the difficult Frenchman handling the documents
said that everything was in order, and he quickly issued the visas.
The Third Lecture on Chetsun Nyingtig
That afternoon, Chojé continued the teaching on Chetsun Nyingtig.
4.22: Chojé, always smiling and at ease
If summarized, the three sections
of the Chetsun Nyingtig are the
empowerment that brings the
mind to maturity and the oral
instructions that grant liberation.
Right now, I am teaching the instructions that grant liberation,
which are further divided into
the introduction, the actual path,
and the subsidiary aspects of the
path. I am now discussing the actual path, which is the practice of
guru yoga and includes the three stages of practice that correspond
respectively to the generation stage, the completion stage, and the
302
Great Perfection. I have completed the instructions on the first two
stages.
Today, I am going to explain the last stage, the Great Perfection. This
includes ascertaining the view of primordial purity through trekchö
and elaborating on the meditation of spontaneous presence through
tögal. This time, I will focus mainly on ascertaining the view of primordial purity through trekchö. It can be divided into four steps:
determining through the view, internalizing through meditation, enhancing through conduct, and maintaining the stable ground through
the result. First, let’s talk about ascertaining the view:
Now, understand this: all phenomena are created by the mind.
You should first understand that all the external objects, whether they
are rocks, soil, mountains, ground, fences, houses, and so forth, appear
because of your mind. All phenomena are an illusory manifestation
projected by the mind.
For instance, when you dream of towering mountains, turbulent
rivers, treacherous passes, steep cliffs, or whatever else, none of these
dream images truly exist externally, neither the mountains, rivers,
nor perilous situations. Similarly, horses, elephants, men, and women
that appear in your dreams do not exist in reality either. All of these
are merely the illusory display of your own mind, and this is easily
understood by everyone. Just like this analogy, all the appearances you
perceive right now are but a projection of the mind. Although external
phenomena appear so vividly and real, all these various appearances
manifest merely as a result of the habitual tendencies in the mind,
and their essence is insubstantial. In other words, they are merely the
manifestations of your own mind, and there is nothing substantial that
exists externally.
Take water as an example. It is perceived as molten iron to hell beings,
pus to hungry ghosts, water to human beings, amrita endowed with
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 303
eight qualities to gods, and the female Buddha Mamaki in the eyes
of bodhisattvas. What different beings perceive is merely the display
of their own karma and minds. Outside of the mind, there is neither
water nor pus, let alone molten iron. So, there is nothing truly existent.
Moreover, imagine that we who are sitting here or certain land animals
jump into water; at the point where our eyes and noses are submerged
under water, it will be difficult for us to see colors or shapes, and we
may even drown. However, fish, whales, and other aquatic animals
can live and see things clearly in the water, and such an environment
actually boosts their strength and makes them more competent. All
these differences are no more than the effects of the different karma of
sentient beings, and as for water, it has no substantial existence at all.
Take fire as another example. Most human beings and animals will
be severely burned and feel great pain when getting too close to fire.
But there is a form of life called fire rats who actually live in the fire
and draw nourishment from it. Also, there is a type of beast called
Purified by Fire. When it jumps into the fire, it not only will not get
incinerated, but its fur gets brightened by the fire. All these phenomena
only illustrate that fire is merely the manifestation of karma and mind,
and there is no fire that substantially exists in the external world.
Let’s analyze further if you still have trouble understanding this and
insist that the world is real. For instance, other religions and many
scientists have explained the facts regarding the phenomenal world,
such as the rising and setting of the sun and moon and the progression
of the four seasons. However, these explanations are reasonable to some
beings while unreasonable to other types of beings. While it is true for
one group of beings, it may be the opposite for another group of beings.
So, it is hard to say which is right and which is wrong. Buddhism
claims that everything appears according to habitual tendencies carried
in the mind, and anything can possibly appear from emptiness in
which nothing inherently exists. Therefore, since different living beings
experience different karmic results, no matter how different the objects
304
may appear to different sentient beings, there are no contradictions at
all.
I have explained that all phenomena are merely the work of the
mind through both analogies and logical analysis. If you refer to the
teachings of the Middle Way and the Mind Only Schools, there will
be much more to elaborate. However, if I explain in too much detail,
it might be difficult for you to grasp, so I am only providing a brief
overview.
In the Chetsun Nyingtig, there are only a few sentences teaching trekchö,
but these are pith instructions as crucial as the heart and eyes, in which
all the key points of tantra, transmission, and upadesha are condensed.
Initially, I planned to explain it in great detail similar to the method
in the earlier teaching. However, if I were to expound too much,
the teaching may run overtime since the schedule is fixed. On the
other hand, I am afraid that would hinder you real practitioners from
grasping the essential meaning, and many others may get weary and
doze off. For these reasons, I will only introduce the actual practice
of trekchö in a concise way at this time. You might already feel that
the way I taught in the previous teaching was too detailed, but to be
honest, that was the most concise way among all the ways of extensive
elaboration.
The above explains that all appearances are created by the mind.
The mind’s impressions are clearly present, yet non-existent.
Some people may ask, “What is it about the mind that brings about
all outside phenomena?” It does not exist but makes all phenomena
appear vividly, just like reflections in a mirror.
So, regarding this mind that is non-existent yet clearly present, how
can it be non-existent? It has no shape like being square or oval or
any color like red, yellow, or blue that can be perceived by the eyes.
Similarly, it has no sound, either melodious, discordant, or neutral that
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 305
can be heard by the ears; it has no smell, either fragrant, malodorous,
or neutral that can be sensed by the nose; it has no sour, sweet, bitter,
spicy, or salty taste that can be experienced by the tongue; and it has
no texture of soft, hard, light, or heavy that can be felt by body. It is the
same if you observe from the aspect of mental objects. For instance,
when afflictive emotion, such as desire, hatred, or ignorance, arises,
if you try to find its essence, it is unattainable. Its nature is not to be
established whether inside or outside of your body or in between. That
is why it can be said that the mind is non-existent.
Clearly present indicates that although the mind is devoid of any
existence, conceptual thoughts that are complicated and constant
never cease. These two qualities coexist without contradicting each
other. Thus, the dualistic mind is clearly present while not existing.
This aspect of the dhatu is beyond the domain of thought.
What is the dhatu in which neither object nor subject is existent? If you
say it is existent, obviously there isn’t an actual entity that can be proved
to exist. If you say it is non-existent, or a state of nothingness, since
existence cannot be established, non-existence that is dependent on
existence cannot be verified either. For instance, if a vase does not even
exist, the non-existence of the vase, which is a concept that depends
on existence of the vase, has no basis to be established either. So,
again, non-existence is also excluded. If you say it is both existent and
non-existent, this is impossible because existence and non-existence
are exclusively incompatible. If you say it is neither existent nor nonexistent, unfortunately, this combination has never been found in any
knowable context.
Therefore, dhatu transcends existence, nonexistence, both, and neither.
From the perspective of the valid cognition of conventional viewpoints,
there are no other intellectual approaches besides these four possibilities. As a result, you can conclude that the dhatu transcends the extent
of concepts.
306
To see with your individually self-cognizant wakefulness
that it has no basis, that is the fundamental natural state of
all phenomena, the uncompounded, radiant depth of original
purity.
Some people may ask, “Then, is it something that can never be perceived, just like the primal substance described in non-Buddhist
religions?” The answer is “no.” Although object and subject do not
exist inherently, the nature can be clearly seen through individual,
self-cognizant wakefulness in a manner devoid of both the perceived
and the perceiver. It is like a person with good eyesight seeing visible
forms during the daytime.
This genuine wisdom of the union of awareness and emptiness is
the natural state of all phenomena. Original purity means that neither
object nor subject can be established. The dhatu is beyond all words
and thoughts, so it is primordially pure. However, individual, selfcognizant wakefulness can perceive everything, yet it has no basis,
which is why it is the radiant depth of original purity. It is not contrived
through causes and conditions and is, therefore, uncompounded.
This completes the determination of the view.
Having internalized this, practice the yoga of space.
This is the method of meditation. There are multiple ways to explain
yoga of space, but, here, it means that your state of meditation should
be like empty space, free from any fixation, conceptual thoughts, and
deliberate effort.
Without involving meditation, train in not being separated
from this true meaning.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 307
That is to say, there is nothing to be meditated upon. You should
not meditate on existence, non-existence, both, or neither. Of course,
besides these four, there is nothing else to be meditated on.
This meditation is without distraction and inseparable from the nature
of mind. This is not a state of ordinary conceptual thoughts nor a
complete void. Work on this uncontrived technique, the meditation
without meditation as best as you can.
When the objects of the six sense sources vividly arise, just
remain effortlessly within dharmata’s self-nature and relax,
without analyzing, like a person who has completed their
work.
For conduct, if speaking from the perspective of the object, the six sense
sourcesrefer to visible forms, sounds, smells, tastes, textures, and mental
objects. In terms of the subject, they denote the eye consciousness,
ear consciousness, nose consciousness, tongue consciousness, body
consciousness, and mind consciousness. When any of these external
sense objects or sense consciousnesses appear, do not follow your
conceptual thoughts of judging them as good or bad or get involved in
any refutation or affirmation. Just relax and abide in the natural state as
if you have just finished a big project, totally at ease, unperturbable, and
perfectly composed. Do not refute or affirm and expend no deliberate
effort, just train in the unobstructed power. This completes the teaching
on conduct.
At that time, the indication of having seized the wind-mind
will effortlessly occur. The luminosity of vipashyana and
actual shamatha are accomplished together.
With the mind abiding single-pointedly, signs of empty form will
effortlessly manifest. Thereby, you will recognize the true face of the
essence of self-awareness and perfect and stabilize its unobstructed
308
power. Thus, all qualities of the fruition will fully manifest. This is the
result of shamatha and vipashyana.
This completes a clear explanation of the view, meditation, conduct,
and result through the Dzogchen practice of trekchö that reveals
primordial purity.
Next, let’s talk about the benefits of the guru yoga practice, which
is endowed with all the essential points of actual practices in the
generation stage, the completion stage, and the Great Perfection.
4.23: Chojé with deep eyes
To engage in this sadhana practice for even one week without
distraction will surely bring blessings from Vimalamitra,
the mahasiddha who achieved the wisdom kaya, and myself,
Singhe Shora, in actuality, in visions or in dreams. At that
time, practitioners will come to know many profound words
and meanings that were previously unknown to them. There
is no doubt that they will discover the gateway to samadhi.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 309
One thing that needs to be clearly understood here is that if you
meditate for seven days without any distraction, you will be cared
for by Vimalamitra and Singhe Shora in person. Nowadays, there
are some people who have not understood the essential meaning of
the Buddhadharma and are constantly and hopelessly propelled by
their discursive thoughts. These people may wonder, “Needless to
mention seven days, I have done a one-month retreat on guru yoga
but have not had even a good dream!” As a matter of fact, what the
root text says is to meditate for one week without any distraction.
Without any distraction means that whether you are practicing the
meditation on the generation stage, the completion stage, the Great
Perfection, or the three of them together, you need to abide in the
corresponding meditative state without being distracted from it, not
even for one instant or the time it takes for the snap of a finger. You need
to practice this way for seven days. A day has twenty-four hours, and
after meditating for seven full days in whatever way, it is impossible
that you will not be accepted and cared for by Vimalamitra in your
dreams.
If you fail to meet this requirement and each day you can only meditate
single-pointedly for as short a time as reciting the hundred syllable
mantra of Vajrasattva once, then how long would it take for you to meet
the requirement of meditating for seven full days with no distraction?
For some people, even if they finish a three-year retreat, I’m afraid
they would not amass seven days of single-pointed meditation.
Nowadays, after entering the door of Buddhism, some people say that
practicing the Buddhadharma brings about no accomplishment. The
fact is that many such people have entered this path but withdrawn
later. This situation is worthy of your consideration. If it is not valid
and cannot bring the result of what is taught in his teachings, the
dharma spoken by the Buddha would be deceptive. However, if you
practice according to what is taught in the scriptures, as a result, for
sure, you will achieve the corresponding accomplishment.
310
If you insist that, “It’s impossible to attain accomplishment in seven
days,” you should understand that seven days are calculated precisely
by hours. In other words, if you can meditate without any forms of
distraction within one hundred sixty-eight hours over seven days, you
will definitely achieve accomplishment. Is there anyone really able
to practice in this way? Of course, yes! Most excellent masters can
meditate for seven days without giving rise to any ordinary thoughts
and thereby achieve supreme attainments. To attain such results, some
spend fourteen days, twenty-one days, a couple of years, or even
longer; so, it is not completely out of your reach. However, be aware
that such meditation is measured by hours. If you can meditate for one
hundred sixty-eight hours completely devoid of conceptual thoughts,
you will surely accomplish the result through such meditation.
Now, I have completed the teaching on the actual path.
Subsidiary Aspects of the Path
These are the subsidiary aspects of the path: As a prelude, at
the level of four fingers below your navel visualize Bhagavan
Vajrasattva and imagine that the recitation of the mantra
causes the fire of wisdom to blaze forth whereby it pervades
all the places of the four chakras, burning away the four
obscurations.
This is the instruction for the meditation and recitation of Vajrasattva.
Four fingerbreadths below the navel, visualize a red Bhagavan Vajrasattva. Holding the breath below the navel, imagine the wisdom fire
blazes from Vajrasattva and purifies completely all demonic forces of
disease, karmic obscurations, and the negativity of winds, channels,
and bindus in the body. At the same time, recite the hundred syllable
mantra of Vajrasattva.
At the end, it touches the syllable “hang” at the crown of
your head, whereby the stream of nectar that embodies the
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 311
wisdom of all buddhas flows down, replenishing the places
of the four chakras and delights the sublime mandala of the
four kayas of the guru. Imagining this, recite “maha sukha
benzar sato ah hang.”
This is the instruction on the mandala practice. Visualize that the body
of Guru Vajrasattva below your navel blazes up with wisdom fire,
which ascends and ignites the syllable hang at your crown, the mere
recollection of which brings forth the nondual experience of emptiness
and bliss. From this syllable, a stream of nectar that is the embodiment
of all buddhas’ wisdom descends and fills the four chakras that lie at
the crown, throat, heart, and navel along the central channel of the
body. As a result, the enlightened body vajra guru, enlightened speech
vajra guru, enlightened mind vajra guru, and wisdom vajra guru who
abide respectively in these four chakras are delighted, and the four
wisdom of joys and four wisdoms of emptiness arise in your mind.
Then, recite maha sukha benzar sato ah hang. Here, maha means great,
sukha means bliss, benzar sato refers to Vajrasattva, and ah hang means
the wisdom of great bliss.
Visualize that this wisdom of great bliss has arisen in your mind. This
is the mandala instruction of inner blazing and melting. When you do
the actual meditation, you can refer to the Chetsun Nyingtig Liturgy to
make the visualization easier.
Next is the practice of the four times of union with buddha, that is, the
four meditation techniques applied respectively during the daytime,
in the evening, at dawn, and at dusk.
First is the instruction of sealing appearances in the daytime:
During the day, in reliance upon the key points of the gateway,
field, wind, and awareness, insert the wind-mind into the
matrix of the vajra chain while meditating in spontaneous
presence.
312
During the daytime, with your body in the three postures, your speech
abandoning all chatter, and your mind resting single-pointedly, you
focus wholeheartedly on the practice of the key points of tögal.
Second is the pith instruction of bringing all that can be known into
the vase during the first portion of night:
During the night, hold the mind single-pointedly upon a
bindu marked with “ah” in the center of the heart or between
the eyebrows. Then, meditate on clear light awareness.
If you wish to have lucid dreams at night, focus your attention on the
white ah between your eyebrows and fall asleep. If you wish to sustain
clear light, focus your attention on the shimmering white ah at your
heart and fall asleep. This is the instruction of bringing all knowable
things into the vase at night.
Third is the pith instruction of allowing awareness to return to its
natural place at dawn:
In the early morning, clear the breath by uttering “ha ha.”
Then, imagine that in the center of the sky there appears
a great, self-emergent, white, radiant, secret syllable “ah.”
Keep the mind, eyes, and wind directly focused upon that to
let awareness return to its natural place.
Before dawn, expel the stale breath three times by chanting ha ha ha.
Then, visualize that the syllable ah at your heart center moves into the
space in front. It is white, luminous, standing straight, and radiating
light rays. Gazing upward, your mind will no longer be lethargic or
drowsy but, instead, clear and lucid.
There are also instructions on the path of emptiness and bliss through
“withdrawing the senses at the time of dusk.” This practice could be
substituted for the meditation and recitation of Vajrasattva that was
previously explained with no need to supplement anything else.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 313
By maintaining instantaneous self-awareness during all
times and situations, allow confused concepts to vanish, like
clouds in space. Train in this self-liberation.
If you maintain an on-going awareness of the view of primordial purity
through trekchö in your daily life, all thoughts will dissolve into the
dhatu, like clouds vanishing into the sky.
This completes the pith instructions that bring liberation in this very
lifetime.
Now, I will teach the two pith instructions that grant liberation at the
time of death.
First, the pith instruction of threefold space:
Not realizing the peerless state in this life, then one must
accomplish the state of transcendence through the threefold
practice of mingling with space.
If you fail to attain buddhahood in the present life, then at the time of
death, focus your mind single-pointedly on the outer space of the sky,
the inner space of the empty channels connected to the eyes, and the
secret space of awareness. Abide in this state to take rebirth. This is
the pith instruction of threefold space.
Second is the pith instruction of transferring your consciousness:
Or focus your attention single-pointedly upon the wind-mind
bindu marked with the syllable “ah” as it ascends the path
of the crown aperture to enter and dissolve into the heart of
the guru, and departs for the pure realms, such as the Blazing
Fire Mountain.
314
4.24: Chojé showing the spot of
crown aperture to the audience
At the time of death, visualize your
mind as the white syllable ah. Through
the compelling power of praying to
the guru above your head, the ah
at your heart center passes out the
crown aperture and rises to finally
dissolve into the heart of the guru.
Then, the guru ascends higher and
higher and departs for a pure realm,
such as Blazing Fire Mountain.
Next is the pith instruction on liberation in the dharmata bardo.
No matter what dawns in the bardo, awareness never changes
or wavers from its own mode of being. Bring to mind the key
point of the upadesha that is like a steady golden scalpel.
In the bardo, no matter what sound, light, or forms of deities manifest
in front of you, remain single-pointed and unwavering in the natural
abode of awareness through the practice of trekchö. This is called the
instruction of the steady golden scalpel.
Those who prefer some degree of elaboration should offer the
ganachakra and enjoy whatever is suitable for that occasion.
In addition, those who conduct an elaborate practice generally need to
perform the ganachakra feast. An authentic ganachakra can only be
conducted by yogis with supreme realization, and ordinary individuals
are unable to accomplish it. However, even if you cannot accomplish
an authentic ganachakra, as long as you make feast offerings each
month on the tenth day of the waxing moon and the tenth day of the
waning moon, you can accumulate immense merit. There are reasons
why it is necessary to hold extensive feast offerings on a regular basis.
All right, this completes our teaching today.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 315
Visited the Vallejo Zoo
4.25: Chojé watching animals through the small
telescope
On the morning of July 14th, Chojé
visited Marine World in Vallejo, California. Many local Buddhists and
Tibetans recommended this place because unlike a normal zoo where animals were caged, Marine World accommodated and treated all the animals in the park quite humanely. The
animals could move around freely in
an open space, engaging with their
trainers or even visitors.
It was a nice day as the sun was
shining brightly in a cloudless sky.
From his wheelchair, Yidzhin Norbu
used a cute little telescope to look
at everything. The park was full of
lush greenery, with birds chirping
and flowers smelling fragrant. There were many kinds of animals leisurely
resting and walking here and there, being away from the dangers of their natural
enemies. They seemed to be well looked after by the park employees, and the
scenery was beautiful, so this made Chojé very happy.
Even though it was called Marine World, there were also many land animals,
and we even saw yaks that, of course, we were most familiar with. Going around
the park, it was interesting to see so many animals that we had never seen
before but had just heard their names. We also went to an outdoor theater and
saw a fabulous dolphin show. Through long-term training, the dolphin could
316
perform many maneuvers and also interact with its trainer, such as having a
swimming competition with its trainer or standing on its tail above water, which
won frequent cheers from the audience.
In the beginning, Rinpoche also showed interest in the dolphin performance.
But after a short while, he started to frown and sigh, feeling kind of sad and
saying, “These animals are too unfortunate! They are trained again and again to
become tools for people’s amusement. If people have no idea about the karmic
law of cause and effect and strive only for food and drink and all kinds of
worldly pleasures, they are no different from the animals.”
4.26: Chojé, Chagdud Rinpoche (the second from the left in the back row), and the entourage
visiting the Marine World
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 317
4.27: Chojé watching the dolphin show through the small telescope
318
4.28: In sadness, Chojé reciting mantras to bless the
animals
During the balance of the tour,
particularly when he saw some
animals that were locked up in
steel cages like prisoners in jail for
life, Chojé became even more serious. He didn’t talk too much, just
kept reciting mantras for those
animals, sending them his blessings. Witnessing this, I truly felt
that these animals were really fortunate because they were able
to receive blessings directly from
Rinpoche in person.
I’ve heard that just a few years
later, Marine World was taken
over by the city of Vallejo for having defaulted on its debts. The
city officials handed over operations to a company that switched the park theme to rides and roller coasters.
Gradually, there were not so many animals left, either on land or in the water.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 319
The Fourth Lecture on Chetsun Nyingtig
On the afternoon of the same day, Yidzhin Norbu gave the final teaching on
Chetsun Nyingtig.
Today, I will continue to teach the Great Perfection.
Regarding the clear light teaching of Dzogpachenpo in the Earlier
Translation School of Ngagyur Nyingma, there is the tradition of those
ancestral vidyadharas who achieved the accomplishment of rainbow
body and left teachings to their disciples after their parinirvana. After
their physical body turned into light in the form of a rainbow body,
they would assemble all the essential, profound instructions from their
lives and impart them to their disciples. It was an exceptional sign
of accomplished Dzogchen practitioners that their physical bodies of
flesh and blood completely turned into light when they entered into
parinirvana. After that, their body of light would reappear within a
mass of light to impart the essential teachings and instructions to their
fortunate disciples. Such transmission is specific only to the Dzogchen
tradition and cannot be found in any other religions or even Buddhist
schools.
Garab Dorje was the first human master who brought the Dzogchen
teachings to the human world. At the time of his parinirvana, he
dissolved into rainbow light and gave his last testament, Three Vital
Statements that Strike the Crucial Point, to his disciple Jampal Shenyen.
When Jampal Shenyen manifested in the form of the rainbow body
after his parinirvana, he conferred upon his Han disciple Shri Singha
his last testament, the Six Meditative Experiences. When Shri Singha
transferred into the rainbow body, he conferred his last testament
of Nailing Down the Seven Points upon Jnanasutra. When Jnanasutra
reappeared in the form of the rainbow body after his parinirvana,
he conferred upon Vimalamitra his last testament, the Four Modes of
Placement.
320
4.29: Chojé looking at everyone with a gentle smile
After these transmissions, in the successive lineage, both Vimalamitra
and Padmasambhava have not yet left any final testaments because
both masters are still residing in their great rainbow transference kayas
and appear just like they did when in the body in the human realm but
now as a rainbow body. Vimalamitra still resides at Mount Wutai in
China, and those who have sufficiently purified their perceptions and
karma can actually see him. Guru Rinpoche went directly to Ngayab
Ling, and now turns the wheel of dharma to guide rakshasas in that
realm. Instead of entering into parinirvana, these two great masters
will continue their dharma activities of benefiting and enlightening
living beings in the forms of their original bodies as long as empty
space remains.
As teacher and disciples, we can follow them in the same way. If we
attain the ultimate accomplishment of the Great Perfection, we no
longer need to enter the cyclic existence of birth and death. At the end
of this life, if our present form can be used to continue the activities of
benefiting sentient beings, we can choose to stay in this world with this
form as long as the empty space remains, just like Vimalamitra and
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 321
Padmasambhava. If our present form can no longer benefit sentient
beings, we can dissolve into rainbow light and then manifest various
illusory bodies to benefit beings.
All in all, you should be clear that this tradition is not an ancient
legend. In history, it truly happened that those previous vidyadharas
reappeared as wisdom light kayas to impart teachings to their disciples
following their parinirvanas. Their words and instructions were put
into the collection called the Four Testaments of the Vidyadharas,
a which
encompasses all the essential points of Dzogchen that were explained
in the categories of tantra, transmission, and upadesha. This collection
was later included in many important texts, such as the Vima Nyingtig
and Lama Gongdu.
Later, when Chetsun Senge Wangchuk, the disciple of Vimalamitra,
entered into parinirvana, he manifested the supreme magical wisdom
body in a mass of light in front of a hundred thousand dakinis led by
Dakini Palgyi Lodro. He then conferred upon them his final testament
that was composed of three sections and called Chetsun Nyingtig. Palgyi
Lodro and the other dakinis condensed these profound instructions of
Chetsun Nyingtig into the syllables that represent the fivefold expanse
and sealed them with the dharani of not-forgetting. The syllables of
the fivefold expanse are a ah, ha, sha, sa, ma. When Jamyang Khyentse
Wangpo was about to reveal the Chetsun Nyingtig, there were one
billion dakinis in his experience of pure luminosity who were chanting
a ah ha sha sa ma melodiously with one voice. At that time, he clearly
recalled how Vimalamitra bestowed the quintessence of the Vima
Nyingtig teachings upon him in his previous life as the Great Chetsun.
Therefore, it can be said that all the essential points of Chetsun Nyingtig
are perfectly encoded in the five syllables of a ah ha sha sa ma.
You may wonder, “Why would you say five syllables? There should be
six syllables.” Indeed, it can be counted as six syllables because there
are sentient beings to be tamed in the six realms. Such situations can
a
rigdzin nam zhi’i dé jé (rig ’dzin rnam bzhi’i ’das rjes).
322
be found in the tantras of the Great Perfection. Nevertheless, Chetsun
Nyingtig asserts the use of the term five syllables because although
in Tibetan, a and ah are two syllables, in Sanskrit when speaking of
the dharmadhatu wisdom, they are the same syllable with the only
difference of short and long pronunciation. When they are combined,
they represent the dharmadhatu wisdom, and therefore, this mantra
has five syllables.
Regarding this question, those with only a smattering of knowledge or
who are misguided would insist that a is just a Tibetan syllable and not
Sanskrit and that the entire Dzogchen teachings were originally taught
in Tibetan, without any of them having appeared in India before. As a
matter of fact, the teaching of the Great Perfection is expressed by the
uncommon symbolic language of the dakinis and vidyadharas. Such
language is not necessarily Tibetan or Sanskrit. For instance, the root
Kalachakra Tantra was initially written in the language of Shambhala
rather than Tibetan or Sanskrit, although now a Tibetan version is
available in the Kangyur. The linguistic modes of the Shambhala
language are completely different from those of Sanskrit and certainly
cannot follow Sanskrit grammar. Likewise, the secret mantra a ah ha
sha sa ma is not necessarily Sanskrit either.
Some others may also think, “The Dzogchen teachings were so profound that they did not flourish in India. How then could the Tibetan
people possibly teach and propagate them?”
In history, when the peerless Lord Atisha, the intentional manifestation
of Buddha Amitabha, came to Tibet, he saw all the Sanskrit scriptures
collected at Samye Monastery, and his pride was completely shattered.
He reflected, “Previously, I thought that I would have mastered all
the tantras preserved at Samye Monastery because I have read not
only all the scriptures that are stored in the god realms, naga palaces,
and the human world, but also all those revealed by the dakinis who
opened the door to the sky treasuries. I’m familiar with all of them.
But the moment I saw the Sanskrit manuscripts of tantras preserved
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 323
at Samye Monastery, I realized that there are many more tantras that
I have not seen before.” As he read through all the tantric teachings
brought from the god realms, naga palaces, and the human world,
as well as the residential places of yakshas or gandharvas, by great
masters including Padmasambhava and Vimalamitra through their
miraculous power, the venerable Atisha deeply praised, “It appears
that the teachings have been propagated in the time of King Trisong
Detsen as they have not been even in India.”
That history is about the final testaments of the Dzogchen masters,
through which you can have a glimpse of the supreme status of the
Chetsun Nyingtig. I have also clarified certain wrong views about the
secret mantra a ah ha sha sa ma. All of you are studying and practicing
Dzogchen, and in the future, you will also guide those who have
karmic connections with you or tame those who are not so connected.
Considering this, I gave you this comprehensive teaching today. Other
than these words, I don’t have any more to say. Please bear in mind that
the six syllables of the secret mantra a ah ha sha sa ma encompass all the
essential points elaborated in the six million four-hundred thousand
tantras of the Great Perfection. So, you must engrave it into your hearts
and chant it frequently. By doing so, you will gain inconceivable benefit
and merit.
When some of you translate the Chetsun Nyingtig into other languages,
such as English, in your translation, you should preserve the original
Tibetan forms of a ah ha sha sa ma, instead of simply replacing them
with a transliteration of other alphabets. Because they are symbolic
language, they should remain unchanged.
Now, I will continue with the root tantra. This part can be divided
into two parts, the favorable condition to receive the teaching and the
explanation of the real teaching.
324
First, the favorable condition to receive the teaching:
In particular, to supplicate the master respectfully and assiduously with intense and uncontrived devotion is the most
supreme method among all means of dispelling obstacles and
enhancing practice.
As you engage in dharma practice, there are many special pith instructions for dispelling obstacles to overcome demonic forces, as
well as many special upadeshas to enhance your practice. However,
in Dzogchen practice, you only need to develop extraordinary faith
and respect toward your guru and thus supplicate him or her with
intense devotion. This is the only pith instruction you need to conquer
obstacles on the path and to enhance your practice.
Here is a key point for you to understand and bear in mind: among
so many Buddhist traditions, particularly all those schools thriving
in the Land of Tibet, including Nyingma, Sakya, Kagyu, Gelug, and
Jonang, which one is the best to follow? Generally speaking, no matter
which tradition you follow and which practice you engage in, first,
you will have to rely on a teacher of great wisdom for many years.
During this period, spend at least five or six years repeatedly listening
to and contemplating dharma teachings. Without this perseverance
to solve your questions one after another, it will be impossible to
completely uproot all your doubts and confusion. At the same time,
you need to follow a gradual path to proceed with your practice, which
sometimes requires many pith instructions for dispelling obstacles
and for enhancing your realization. As an ordinary practitioner, it is
not easy to attain the final accomplishment along such a path.
On the contrary, Dzogchen practice has many advantages concerning
this matter. Instead of many years, you only need to rely on a qualified
teacher for a short period of time. Instead of learning and contemplating
the dharma meticulously, you only need to recognize the nature of
mind. Instead of many other instructions to dispel negativity and
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 325
bring forth enhancement, you only need the very specific instruction
of supplicating your teacher with great faith and devotion and to have
confidence in the teaching that you are practicing. Therefore, given all
these advantages, it is essential for each of you to practice the Great
Perfection.
4.30: Chojé tirelessly teaching the dharma
Take renunciation to heart.
A Dzogchen practitioner must possess the genuine mind of renunciation. That is, solely wish for liberation from samsara in all future
lives, without any worldly attachment in this life, such as destroying
enemies and protecting relatives, farming, or doing business for profit.
Cultivate the mind of renunciation in order to embark on the path of
the Great Perfection.
Bring forth the power of devotion and conviction.
You should also focus on the training of devotion and certainty toward
the teaching and the teacher. You embrace a firm conviction in your
326
hearts and show your respect and devotion through your behavior.
It is not enough to simply have a negligible devotion and conviction.
Instead, they should be strong and long-lasting.
Bring about unbearable compassion.
Compassion is the intention of wishing all sentient beings to be free
from suffering. Such compassion is not ordinary or slight and trivial
but is hundreds or thousands of times stronger than the love a mother
feels for her only child. You should give rise by all means to such a
great compassion so that you cherish others much more than yourself.
Rely upon the ambrosia of the object.
All external phenomena of visible forms, sounds, smells, tastes, and
textures have the nature of emptiness, while they appear in various
ways. Once you recognize that they are none other than the adornment
of rigpa, intrinsic awareness, you will attain the qualities of meditative
experience and realization. At that moment, the external environment
is just like the ambrosia of the object that you can rely on.
Harness elaboration from within.
Do not indulge yourself in all kinds of trivial things, such as harming
your enemies or taking care of your relatives and friends. Just lead a
simple life with enough food and clothes. In the best case, relinquish
the nine types of activity explained in the Dzogchen teachings. At least,
avoid all meaningless, trivial matters and single-pointedly practice
Dzogchen.
Let wind rest freely.
When engaging in the practice of the completion stage, such as the
yogas based on the channels, wind, and bindus, you need to practice
with effort to develop the required visualizations during inhalation
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 327
or exhalation. However, such effort is not needed in Great Perfection
practice.
Instead, breathe slowly to the point where you barely notice the
movement of the winds. Abiding in such a way is the path without
effort. Because Dzogchen practice does not need any pith instruction
to dispel obstacles or to bring forth enhancement, simply leave the
breath uncontrolled and let the wind move naturally.
Never separate from the key point of the postures.
When practicing trekchö, thoroughly cutting through to original purity,
beginners should maintain the seven-point posture of Vairochana. Do
not depart from this correct posture, because lying down or leaning
on something will make a beginner fall into lethargy, being dazed and
muddled, or being numb. Certainly, accomplished practitioners who
have reached an absolutely unchanging state of realization can assume
whatever posture they want during their practice.
When practicing tögal, crossing over to spontaneous presence, the
key point of the body is to maintain one of the three postures, the
postures of dharmakaya, sambhogakaya, and nirmanakaya. Again, do
not depart from these correct postures. Otherwise, you will not be able
to experience the luminosity of the dhatu of awareness, the luminosity
of the empty bindu, as well as the vajra chain of awareness.
Let the supreme faculties pierce the dhatu.
During the practice, your mind, eyes, and wind should be merged
with the sun, moon, or a butter lamp. Like dissolving into empty space,
single-pointedly abide in the dhatu of awareness.
328
Sometimes, hold a gentle vase.
Here, hold a gentle vase means that after inhaling, you retain a small
amount of air inside the belly. Sometimes indicates that when wholesome, conceptual thoughts, such as devotion, compassion, or bodhicitta
arise, continue to hold a gentle breath. Gentle suggests that you need
not hold the breath vigorously like the instructions required in the
channels and wind practice.a Holding the breath gently is adequate in
this practice.
4.31: Several great Tibetan lamas gathering together
Always sustain the continuity of empty, naked awareness
and focus on that as the vital point.
During the practice of trekchö, do not think of nothing at all. Rather,
recognize clearly and vividly the original nature of the mind, which
is the perfect union of emptiness and awareness. During the practice
of tögal, also maintain the natural state of empty awareness, neither
being attracted by the external environment nor imagining a complete
void inwardly.
a
tsa lung (rtsa rlung).
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 329
This was condensed to the essentials.
This completes a brief summary and explanation of all the essential
points in the practice.
Resolve your questions by relying upon the Nyingtig teachings. Receive the subtle details from your master.
If you have more questions due to misconceptions or the lack of
understanding, consult the one hundred nineteen instructions found
in the Vima Nyingtig that can uproot all confusion and doubts. The more
profound and subtle meanings can only be understood by directly
listening to the guru’s upadeshas in person. The pith instructions
that a guru gives a disciple would be concise, maybe just a couple of
sentences, and are enough to introduce the disciple to the recognition
of empty awareness.
Having strived on the path, a practitioner dissolves the
contaminated body into light in these ways: for the superior
after six months, for the middling after three years, and for
the inferior after twelve years.
By practicing this Great Perfection teaching of Chetsun Nyingtig according to your capacity of being superior, middling, or inferior, you
will achieve liberation in six months, in three years, or at most twelve
years. This is such a swift path.
Words and sounds vanish in the central channel, and various
thoughts dissolve into inner luminosity.
As a result, your speech and words will dissolve into the central
channel and become the words of a buddha, and conceptual thoughts
will dissolve into the dhatu and become the enlightened mind of a
buddha.
330
If these goals are desired, then body, speech, and mind all
attain supreme siddhi.
You will be able to manifest various illusory forms that conform
to different sentient beings’ elements, capacities, inclinations, and
intentions. This is the accomplishment of the most supreme result of
body, speech, and mind.
Therefore, exert yourself in nothing but this. In the future,
when the five degenerations are rampant, barbarians invade
the Land of Tibet, and the doctrine declines, a practitioner
with great devotion to the Heart Essence tradition will
appear in this world. His external behavior may seem completely ordinary, so no one will fathom the depth of his secret
realization. Having seen that all phenomena are magical in
nature, he will master appearances, and his realization will
be unrivaled. The sign of the dakas will mark his forehead.
His mind, having been blessed by Acharya Manjushrimitra,
will overflow with prajna awareness. In particular, having
discovered the certainty of definitive truth, he will have
genuine, unassailable devotion to me and my lineage. Known
as Odsal Trulpa’i Dorje, he will appear at a future time far
from now. This has been spoken for him. For the time being,
you dakinis of the space of wisdom must personally guard
this within the syllables of the fivefold expanse. When the
time arrives, bless this individual’s mind and awaken him
so that he will benefit those fortunate disciples who are
instantaneous realizers.
The meaning of this conclusion was explained in detail when I taught
the history of Chetsun Nyingtig empowerment. So, I won’t elaborate on
it again. Simply speaking, at the end of this teaching, the great Chetsun
prophesied that in the future, his teaching would be revealed by Odsal
Trulpa’i Dorje, the secret name of Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo, who
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 331
would rely on this teaching and benefit those who are endowed with
superior faculties and fortunately connected with the Great Perfection.
The word-by-word meaning of this paragraph was offered to you when
I gave you the Chetsun Nyingtig empowerment.
Now, I want to share with you a few words from the bottom of my
heart. In terms of spiritual practice, it can be said that here in this
country of the US, there are two types of people due to their different
interests, intentions, intelligence, and ethnic backgrounds. There are
those non-believers who follow no religious or spiritual traditions
at all, and those believers who follow a certain religious or spiritual
tradition. Given these two types of people, which one is preferable?
This question is worthy of your deep thought, and you shouldn’t
remain indifferent on this issue. You are not material things, nor are
you insane or losing the ability of rational thinking. So, please give
this deep thought: is it good to believe in nothing at all or is having a
religious belief indeed better?
Non-believers seldom think about or seek a path that ensures happiness
and avoids suffering in their present and all future lives. They are
fully occupied with basic needs, such as food and clothing in this
life, and have almost no difference from animals in regard to their
spiritual pursuits. This morning we went to Marine World, and I truly
felt pity for those animals there. Being animals, they have no ability
to improve themselves and are only controlled by their karma. They
have no ability or intelligence to determine where they will be born
and what will happen to them in their future lives. How sad that is!
Therefore, from my perspective, I do believe that everyone needs to
follow a religious tradition for their well-being in their present and
future lives.
Among all the different religious traditions, some of them are only
concerned with their own peace and happiness; and in order to satisfy
their needs, they would rather harm others. Such a tradition is also
pitiful, and it is certain that their followers will suffer from misfortune
332
in this life and undergo more pain in their future lives. Except for
Buddhism, it can be said that Christianity is the best of all religions
because it promotes the concept of compassion and brotherhood
toward all human beings. Still, I do not think it is comparable with
Buddhism. Why? Because all its doctrines that advocate virtue and
goodness can be found in the Buddhist teachings, while many doctrines
provided in Buddhism to bring yourself and all other sentient beings
happiness and ease in this and future lives are completely missing in
Christianity.
In Buddhism, there are not only doctrines like this, but many authentic
scriptures, logical references, personal experiences, and instructions
that are available and can be trusted. Authentic scriptures refers to
the noble teachings given by Buddha Shakyamuni and the great
bodhisattvas like Manjushri and Avalokiteshvara several thousand
years ago. They were all noble beings of extraordinary wisdom. Logical
references refers to all the valid reasonings and analyses that have
been established in the past few thousand years that have ascertained
that the Buddha’s words are free from fault or self-contradiction.
Personal experiences refers to what hundreds of millions of people have
experienced after putting the Buddhadharma into their practices and
actualizing the Buddha’s teaching. Having achieved the temporary
happiness and the ultimate fruition of buddhahood, they themselves
proved the Buddha’s words and also passed on their pith instructions of
practice to their followers. Therefore, you should have a firm conviction
in the Buddhadharma because it is not just mouthing words, but has
been verified by authentic scriptures, logical references, personal
experiences, and instructions.
There are many dharma teachings in Buddhism, but I believe the Great
Perfection teachings are the most excellent among all of them. Any
practitioner who follows the Dzogchen path, regardless of whether
they have a superior, middling, or inferior capacity, will be capable of
understanding its meaning. All of them will comprehend the teaching
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 333
in a short period of time; and if their faith and devotion are very strong,
it is even possible for them to attain buddhahood within six months.
Such an extremely swift and easy path is very rare in any Buddhist
text.
I am sharing with you my conclusion obtained through my in-depth
research over a long term. Honestly speaking, I was born with a keen
intellect and have been studying and investigating Buddhist and nonBuddhist doctrines since the age of fourteen. Now, I am sixty years old,
and I am confident to share my result. I do not dislike other religions
while holding a blind love for Buddhism. Instead, I am just telling
you the truth with an objective attitude. Also, I am not reporting my
research to every rinpoche present here, nor to other gurus or tulkus
who are now in Nepal or India. I mainly want to share my thoughts
with you western devotees, virtuous men and women. I’m afraid
that you might not understand the difference between Buddhism and
non-Buddhism even after decades of study, so I truly want to share my
research that is free from any biased or prejudiced view. From now on,
if you can make an unwavering determination to solely practice the
Great Perfection with no more hesitation or doubt, I am sure that your
present life and all future lives will become better and better.
However, if you still have any concerns about whether the clear light
teaching of Dzogpachenpo really surpasses other teachings or suspect
that this tradition is no different from other religions or Buddhist
schools, you may come and bring your questions to me. I can provide
you with a good answer. Or if I am too busy, you are welcome to ask
Khenpo Namdrol or Khenpo Sodargye, and they will do the same
thing for you. Like this, if you work hard to resolve your questions over
a long period of time, you will eventually give rise to an uncommon
faith and devotion in the Great Perfection.
What I have given you is a detailed explanation on the first section of
the Chetsun Nyingtig. The second section is the sadhana for the practice,
and the third is an outline of all the pith instructions, or upadeshas.
334
This time I will not elaborate on those two sections. However, I will
now read the entire text of the Chetsun Nyingtig and give to you the
complete oral transmission of the three sections without missing a
single word.
4.32: Chojé attentively listening to others
There are two types of commentaries on the Chetsun Nyingtig, the
vast and the profound. The vast type of commentary includes Adzom
Drukpa Rinpoche’s Words of the Vidyadhara: A Commentary on the
Preliminary Practicesa and The Excellent Path of the Heart of Wisdom: A
Special Commentary,
b
in which you may find the teaching manuals
and instructions from the perspective of the vast category. In the
profound category, the most profound is Terton Lerab Lingpa’s Wisdom
Bindu: A Commentary Summarizing the Heart Essence.
c There is also
the commentary composed by Jamgon Kongtrul Lodro Thayé, Heart
a ngondro’i tri yig rigdzin zhal lung (sngon ’gro’i khrid yig rig ’dzin zhal lung); Adzom Drukpa.
b
tri yig lam zang yeshe nyingpo (khrid yig lam bzang ye shes snying po); Adzom Drukpa.
c
tri yig yeshe tiglé (khrid yig ye shes thig le); Lerab Lingpa.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 335
Essence of Chetsun: The Perfect Secret Bindu,
a which combines all the key
points of the vast and the profound. It would be best if in the future
you can carefully read and contemplate all these teaching manuals and
commentaries. But if you don’t have time, what I have been teaching
in these three or four days encompasses all the essential points of their
ultimate intent. I have offered them to you without any omissions.
As for the particular circumstances that brought about this teaching,
Chagdud Rinpoche and other great masters requested me on behalf
of their disciples to explain the cycle of Chetsun Nyingtig. All of them
are authentic Dzogchen practitioners, and they say exactly what they
think. They requested me with great faith and eagerness, “Please give
us a detailed explanation this time!” Therefore, following their request,
I have given you all the pith instructions and guidance for the Chetsun
Nyingtig without any reservation or omission. It is my sincere wish
that all of you put these teachings into your actual practices. I have
not taught the Chetsun Nyingtig like this in the Tibetan region, and it
is only for you this time. The reason was explained yesterday, so now
I will stop here. May you enjoy auspiciousness and happiness! Tashi
Delek! (Applause)
a
chetsun nyingtig tiglé sang dzok (lce btsun snying thig thig le gsang rdzogs); Jamgon Kongtrul Lodro
Thayé.
336
Rode in a Hot Air Balloon for the First Time
4.33: The entourage riding in a hot air balloon
On the morning of July 15th, some American disciples strongly recommended
that Yidzhin Norbu take a hot air balloon ride to view the landscape of the
mountains and rivers in Napa Valley.
As it turned out, people with heart disease or high blood pressure were not
supposed to ride in a hot air balloon, so
he didn’t go; but the rest of us went to
experience this unique ride.
Before the invention of the airplane, hot air balloons were the primary mode
of transport that allowed people to travel by air. A hot air balloon consists of a
large bag, called an envelope, with a basket suspended underneath. A gas burner
sits in the basket and is used to heat the air inside the balloon above, generating
lift. The best time for a hot air balloon ride is a couple of hours before sunrise or
sunset because at that time the wind conditions are calmer, making for a more
pleasant ride.
4.34: The hot air balloon in the sky
The day was sunny and cloudless
at nine o’clock in the morning, and
we stood by the balloon, watching it
being inflated more and more until
it was finally ready for lift-off. The
basket was set upright, and we got in
together with the pilot. The balloon
soon started to lift off the ground.With
the speed getting faster and faster, it
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 337
reached a height of one thousand feet very quickly. The whole process was so
amazing to us!
Then, the balloon started to fly level in the sky, passing over densely populated
city areas, farms, and forests, as well as mountains. It was such an awesome view
with a variety of beautiful scenery clearly appearing before us, as if we were
traveling above a magnificent painting. Soaring in the sky and watching the
endless world, I felt such a joy of freedom. Every time we flew over a mountain,
the wind was much stronger, and the basket swayed quite a bit. Such turbulence
seemed to be even stronger than in an airplane. However, I was not nervous at
all, feeling quite at ease during the whole ride, which took about an hour.
This was an amazing journey and provided me with a unique perspective
of the world. It made me feel like I saw the entire world and truly realized the
smallness of humankind. Although I had seen photos of hot air balloons flying
in the sky, such a personal experience far surpassed any photographs.
Why Does Secret Mantra Need to Be Kept Secret
On the afternoon of the same day, Chojé gave the empowerment for the Dzogchen
practice of Peaceful Manjushri and corresponding teachings.
This empowerment is the heart blood of one hundred thousand dakinis,
and it is equivalent to my heart essence. I have now offered it to all of
you without any reservation. Placing Buddhahood within Reach is the
practice manual for the terma cycle of Peaceful Manjushri. I believe this
profound instruction is unprecedented and unique in the world, and
it contains extremely powerful blessings. I will also give that to you
tomorrow. Meanwhile, there is one thing I want to make clear: because
it is such a profound and supreme teaching, it may also put you at risk.
That is to say, by relying on this teaching, some will gain immense
benefit, while some may encounter disastrous misfortune.
338
If a Dzogchen practitioner with genuine, pure, and devoted faith in
his or her teacher practices wholeheartedly with diligence and guards
the profound secret while never disclosing it to others, he or she will
certainly attain buddhahood in this short human life. Even in this
degenerate age, there is no need to undergo long-term hardship in
practice, and such practitioners will attain inconceivably great benefit
that surpasses even that of obtaining one hundred thousand wishfulfilling jewels. On the contrary, if a Dzogchen practitioner holds
no faith in the teacher, and, even worse, is two-faced, offering praise
face-to-face but disparaging behind the back, this person not only
creates no merit but also the cause that will take him or her to the
lower realms.
Therefore, since all of you have entered the door of this profound path,
you must engage in the actual practice with utmost faith and devotion.
Otherwise, if you maintain that this teaching is not beneficial or pure,
make a presumptuous judgment and criticize it, or cast it aside after a
couple of years and search for another path while harboring wrong
view toward Buddhism, then it is certain you will fall to the lower
realms. As you can see, if you follow the Dzogchen path with a lack of
mindfulness, you may put yourself at risk.
4.35: Chojé ready to bless the audience after the empowerment
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 339
One more crucial point is that you must not disclose this teaching to
those who are not qualified and who have never received a Dzogchen
empowerment. Except with your guru and a very few close vajra
brothers and sisters who observe the same inner vows with you, how
could you possibly speak of the view and meditation of the Great
Perfection to anyone else? Even discussing its terms with unqualified
individuals will force you to fall to the lower realms. Such is the danger
of the Dzogchen path. So, please never disclose this teaching to others,
but rather keep it a secret. Do you understand what I mean?
Some may wonder, “Is there any hidden fault in the Dzogchen teaching
that it has to remain secret?”
Absolutely not. The reason is that keeping it secret is a favorable condition for us to easily attain all common and supreme accomplishments,
while disclosing it, proclaiming it everywhere, and telling everyone
about it are the exact causes for rebirth in the lower realms. Therefore,
keeping the secret is solely for the sake of our own benefit, not because
the Dzogchen teaching has any faults.
As for myself, I traveled thousands of miles to reach America in the
west all the way from an Asian country in the east. All of you disciples
have gathered here to see me and receive my teachings. I believe this
is a result of our previous karma together with the shared aspirations
that we made many lifetimes ago. However, it is impossible for us to
meet again and again in this temporary human life, and I’m pretty sure
that I will not return to the US. Probably, this is the only time for me
to travel to the West. As I think of all of you, I truly love you and also
feel deep compassion for you, which is why I have given you so many
precious teachings that I have not taught frequently or extensively in
the Land of Tibet. However, if this is an incorrect decision and in the
future you broadcast these secret teachings everywhere, then such
actions will bring about harmful consequences to both you as disciples
and me as the teacher. Therefore, if you remain ignorant or careless, the
profound empowerments and instructions of Secret Mantrayana will
340
cause serious harm to you. On the contrary, if you follow the guidelines
exactly, they will undoubtedly bring you tremendous benefit.
Here is something I need to repeat. Each one of you should develop
sincere devotion toward your teacher. Such devotion has to be sincere
and uncontrived. Do not show your respect in front while having nothing behind. Meanwhile, you should cultivate a consistent, confident
faith in the teachings, and do not be either too loose or too tight in
your dharma practice. If you show enthusiasm for the dharma at the
beginning while losing interest and enthusiasm over time, this is what
I mean by “being too loose or too tight.”
The Secret Mantra teaching of the Great Perfection is so profound
and unique that if you engrave it in your heart and persevere in its
practice, never divulging any relevant information to anyone else, you
will achieve buddhahood in this very life. Such is the extraordinarily
distinctive and supreme teaching of Dzogchen. Please keep this in
mind.
The Essential Points of Actual Practice
Today, it seems I cannot give you a word-by-word explanation on
Placing Buddhahood within Reach by following its original text because
some of you will not be here tomorrow and there will be many
newcomers for tomorrow’s teaching. So, I’d like to take this short
time to talk about the essential points covered in this practice manual.
Generally speaking, there are three essential points in terms of the
beginning, the middle, and the end in Placing Buddhahood within Reach.
The essential point in the beginning is that a practitioner must rid him
or herself of attachment to anything in samsara, because everything
in cyclic existence is trivial and insignificant. Only by doing so can
you give rise to a genuine intention of following the authentic path to
liberation and accomplishing its fruition. To achieve this goal, deeply
contemplate the freedoms and advantages of human existence, as well
as the impermanence of human life, in order to dispel the attachment
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 341
to this present life. Also, contemplate repeatedly the karmic law of
cause and effect, as well as the faults of samsara in order to dispel the
attachment to all future lives. Continue these contemplations until you
are able to completely cut off any attachment to samsara.
4.36: Chojé with a loving smile
The essential point in the middle
is to accomplish vast benefit for
yourself and others. What are
the expedient methods to do
that? They are to take refuge in
the Three Jewels and to arouse
bodhicitta in your mind. How
do you take refuge? First, be
committed to being a pure Buddhist by taking the vows, and
second, be engaged in dharma study and practice. The Buddhadharma
can be categorized into two types, the common teaching of the common
vehicles and the uncommon teaching of Mahayana. All followers of the
common vehicles should promise not to harm other living beings even
at the risk of losing their own lives. This is included in the precepts
for both monastics and lay practitioners, and you must abide by this
discipline. Of course, simply not harming others is not enough. You
must take the vow of never harming any other beings, and only by
having such a resolve can you become a qualified Buddhist. Material
things like rocks and mountains have no intention of hurting others
either, but they cannot be Buddhists. Therefore, taking refuge vows in
front of the Three Jewels is a necessity, and only by relying on these
vows can you commit yourself to never harming others. This is the
significant meaning of taking refuge in the Three Jewels.
Now, it is known that the prerequisite for not harming others is to take
the Buddhist vows. These days, the Buddhist tradition of receiving
pure precepts has been maintained very well in many countries in
southeast Asia. In the Tibetan regions, India, Sri Lanka, and other
countries, there are many people who have taken the novice precepts
342
or the bhikshu precepts meaning to become fully ordained. As far as
I know, this is not an easy thing to do in the western world, but still
you can take the five precepts or the eight one-day precepts for lay
practitioners.
What are the five precepts for lay practitioners? They are to refrain
during one’s lifetime from taking the life of a human being, lying or
speaking in a way that is seriously deceptive or will cause great harm
to others, sexual misconduct with a married person based on desire,
stealing other’s possession, and drinking any alcohol. It is best for a
lay practitioner to take all five vows because this will enhance their
spiritual practice. If you truly have difficulty taking all of them, you
should promise to observe at least one or two of them in this lifetime.
Only after taking some or all five precepts can you embody the true
meaning of being a lay practitioner of Buddhism.
No killing, no stealing, no sexual misconduct, and no lying are called
the four root precepts. If you promise to observe four of them from
today’s sunrise to tomorrow’s sunrise, this is the practice of Sojong. In
the worst case of being incapable of observing any of these disciplines,
you may engage in some regular practices, such as circumambulating
the representatives of the Three Jewels, making prostrations, chanting
sutras or mantras like the Mani mantra, Manjushri’s mantra, Guru
Rinpoche’s mantra, and so on. Chant these mantras as many times as
you can.
We Tibetans have a custom of shouting and cheering when encouraging
others to take a big step forward. Now, I am also going to cheer you on
toward virtuous practice. A cheer is meant to inspire an individual’s
ability in a competition. How can I inspire you? As you know, in our
Land of Tibet, the population is sparse, the economy is backward,
and the overall education level is not the best. Even so, not only all
lamas, almost every Tibetan man or woman has been reciting the Mani
mantra or Manjushri’s mantra over one hundred million times during
the course of their lives. By contrast, in your country where there is a
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 343
large population, strong economy, and a high standard of living and
a wide range of modern education, it seems that many of you have
not chanted mantras very often. You just hold onto your arms without
using them to accumulate merit. Then, in front of all us Tibetan lamas,
do you feel a little bit embarrassed? (Laughs) Please do your best to
chant mantras!
4.37: Chojé blessing devotees with khatas
It is not enough for you to just refrain from harming others. You need
to further benefit them with a compassionate and altruistic mind.
This is the very foundation of Dzogchen practice. The ultimate heart
essence of the Buddhadharma is entirely about great compassion.
Abandoning the selfish concern for your own benefit and constantly
having kind thoughts and doing wholesome deeds for all sentient
beings is the cultivation of supreme bodhicitta. Such altruistic practice
is indispensable in your spiritual path.
The essential point at the end is to rely on an excellent method to
achieve buddhahood. Such a method needs to be free from any fault,
344
trustworthy, and qualified through the examination of valid cognition.
What is this method? It is the Vajrayana path of Secret Mantra, or in
particular, the ultimate clear light teaching of the Great Perfection,
which is the pinnacle of all vehicles. Diligently engaging solely in
Dzogchen practice is the final essential point that can accomplish
everything. As such, all Buddhadharma can be summarized into three
key points: refraining from harming others, benefiting all living beings,
and seeking the path that enables you to benefit beings easily and
swiftly in a vast way.
The above are the three crucial points in the practice manual Placing
Buddhahood within Reach. Anyone who wants to receive more on this
teaching, please come on time tomorrow on Friday afternoon. That’s
all for today.
4.38: Khenpo Sodargye serving Chojé
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 345
Blessing, Entrustment, and Sealing
On the morning of July 16th, Yidzhin Norbu explained Placing Buddhahood
within Reach from its beginning until the completion stage, and then simply gave
the oral transmission for the part of the Great Perfection. During his teaching,
he made the following remarks when talking about the entrustment and sealing
of this practice manual.
I have finished the instruction of the virtue in the beginning that
belongs to the common vehicles and the instruction of the virtue in
the middle that is common to both Sutrayana and Tantrayana. Now,
I will continue with the instruction of the virtue in the end that is
uncommon and specific only to the Dzogchen path. This has three
parts: the preliminary practice, the actual practice, and the concluding
practice.
The instructions for the preliminaries mainly focus on the skillful
methods to destroy the delusions of the three doors so that body,
speech, and mind are completely purified. The instructions for the
actual practice are the teachings on trekchö, which reveals the view of
original purity, so that you can directly and unmistakably perceive the
genuine nature of the mind. The instructions for the concluding part
are the teachings on tögal that bring the realization of spontaneous
presence so that the practitioner can effortlessly witness the natural
unobstructed power of kayas and wisdoms.
The best way of practicing these upadeshas is, first, your actual practice
must be guided and instructed by a qualified teacher in person, which
is the transmission of direct experience with the master; second, you
must have gained a certain level of personal experience on the previous
stage of the instructions before you can continue with the next stage.
After I’ve left, you may ask the present Tibetan lamas for the guidance
on your actual practice and meditative experience, and they will
provide you with detailed instructions. Even if you fail to find any
346
qualified Dzogchen teachers, if you are able to perfectly practice those
preliminaries that I have taught, such a solid and stable practice will
enable you to actualize the rest of the teachings with no difficulty at
all. I am now blessing you, entrusting, and sealing this precious and
secret teaching to all of you.
4.39: Chojé with a mighty look
With my blessing, entrustment, and sealing, I not only wish each of
you the ability to actualize this Great Perfection teaching in your mind,
but also entrust this enlightened activity to you in the presence of the
Three Roots and dharma protectors as my witness with the seal of
entrustment that this precious upadesha will flourish when the time is
right. By doing so, you will gain the realization of the Great Perfection,
and everything will be naturally accomplished.
Other than this, if I give you a detailed explanation on the balance of
Placing Buddhahood within Reach at this time, I don’t think it would be
of great benefit. It is like a house that has a flight of eighteen steps
at its entrance; you cannot directly fly to the eighteenth step without
walking up the first one, the second one, and so on. In the same way, if
you do not practice and personally experience all the previous stages
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 347
of the instructions, you will never understand the final upadesha even
if I teach you day after day and month after month.
Do not be frustrated because you feel the actual practice is difficult to
understand. Just exert yourself in the practice of the four thoughts of
renouncing samsara, taking refuge, generating bodhicitta, and guru
yoga. When you truly actualize all these preliminary teachings in your
mind, I can guarantee that you will gain genuine, personal realization
of the Great Perfection even if you just read Placing Buddhahood within
Reach by yourself.
In order to carry on the transmission of the practice manual Placing
Buddhahood within Reach, I’ll read it in Tibetan and give you its entire
oral transmission. Please listen carefully with your sincere devotion.
Personally, I feel these remarks given by Chojé at that time are actually an
indirect entrustment to all future fortunate beings. For most of you, although
you may not have seen the supreme appearance of Yidzhin Norbu in person
nor have heard the teachings and instructions directly from him, as long as you
finish the entire five hundred thousand preliminary practices conscientiously
and hold pure faith in the teaching and your teacher, it will not be too hard
for you to understand the Dzogchen teaching by relying on Placing Buddhahood
within Reach. By doing so, you will eventually realize the true reality of the Great
Perfection.
348
The Teaching that Brought Me Closest to Manjushri
Jaime Kalfas attended Rinpoche’s teachings in Napa Valley, and he related the
following words:
In Napa Valley, Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche gave us the empowerment, transmission, and instruction of Peaceful Manjushri, a terma revealed
by him at Mount Wutai in 1987, only six years before he transmitted it to
us; so it was very fresh.
Rinpoche taught in a special way. For me, the teaching on this occasion
was not overly polished or overly formal. Occasionally, he would put his
mala on his ear. All of us felt he was a really down-to-earth teacher with
no pretensions at all.
4.40: Jaime Kalfas now
During that visit, another teaching
he had given was Chetsun Nyingtig.
Some students prefer Peaceful Manjushri, some like Chetsun Nyingtig.
Personally, I related in a deeper
way to the Peaceful Manjushri. For a
very long time, I practiced it daily,
but recently I got a little bit sluggish. I think I should pick it up
again as my daily practice. At our
retreat center, we’ve done group practice on it once every week.
Sometimes, I feel you cannot get closer to Manjushri than doing this
practice! I really like it. When I travel, I may or may not take the practice
text with me, but I am sure my recitation of this mantra has never been
interrupted.
Later he started to sing the prayer to His Holiness. Then, he stopped and
said, “This makes me want to cry. The feeling of his presence is here. Obviously,
his blessing is here.”
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 349
Flying on a Private Jet
On the afternoon of July 16th, a patron of Yidzhin Norbu’s dharma activities
invited him to take an airplane tour on his private jet and to also bless it. He
agreed.
4.41: Chojé ready to take an airplane tour on the private jet owned by Mike Feigenberg
(first on the left)
When we arrived at the Napa County Airport, we found that there were
many private jets parked on the tarmac. Apparently, the number of Americans
who own private jets was relatively high. For us, however, even owning a car
was unimaginable at that time, not to mention a private jet.
Because of the limited seating, only Chojé, Ani Medron, Lama Mumtso,
and the translator boarded the jet. The rest of us waited at the airport. As the
jet flew higher and higher, it became increasingly smaller in the sky, finally
disappearing out of sight.
350
4.42: Chojé and the entourage by the private jet
4.43: Chojé at the airport
Since the wind was strong that day,
I was a little worried about their safety
and kept watching in the direction where
the jet disappeared. It turned out that
the jet returned very late from another
direction! Anyway, as the jet landed safely
on the ground, my uneasiness was finally
relieved.
Rinpoche appeared to be in a very good mood, saying that the airplane trip
was very interesting. As to where exactly they went and what happened during
the flight, none of us waiting at the airport ever found out.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 351
The Yang Zab Nyingpo
On the afternoon of July 17th, Yidzhin Norbu conferred the Yang Zab Nyingpo
empowerment, a Vajrakilaya terma revealed by the great terton Lerab Lingpa.
Before the empowerment, Rinpoche gave the following history:
4.44: Western disciples holding khatas, lining up to welcome Chojé
In ancient times, when the eight vidyadharas of India gathered at the
Shankarakuta Stupa, each received a casket that contained a particular
division of the Drubpa Kagyad,
a
the Eight Great Sadhana Teachings. By
practicing the corresponding teaching that each of them received, they
became the respective lineage holders of each division of the Drubpa
Kagyad. At the time they received the caskets, there was one additional
casket containing teachings of all eight divisions, which they were not
able to open. So, it was placed back inside the Shankarakuta Stupa
and buried once again.
At a later time, Guru Padmasambhava revealed this casket that contained all eight divisions from the center of the Shankarakuta Stupa.
a
sgrub pa bka’ brgyad.
352
Then in the Red Rock Cave at Chimphu, the solitary place near the
glorious Samye Monastery, Guru Rinpoche conferred the complete
empowerments of the Gathering of the Sugatas of the Eight Transmitted Preceptsa
to his nine heart spiritual sons, including the king and
ministers. The Eight Great Deities include five wisdom deities, which
are Yamantaka, enlightened body; Hayagriva, enlightened speech;
Yangdak Heruka, enlightened mind; Chemchok Heruka, enlightened
qualities; and Vajrakilaya, enlightened activity; as well as three worldly
deities.
During the empowerment, Guru Padmasambhava entrusted the transmission of Vajrakilaya to his consort Yeshe Tsogyal. Then, one of King
Trisong Detsen’s foremost ministers, the accomplished Mantra practitioner Nanam Dorje Dudjom, the Indestructible Subduer of Mara,
repeatedly implored the great Khandro Yeshe Tsogyal to transmit the
teachings of Vajrakilaya to him. Yeshe Tsogyal hesitated and sent a
message to him, saying, “The time has not yet come for me to transmit
the Vajrakilaya teachings. You should prepare extensive offerings for a
ganachakra feast and directly request it from Guru Rinpoche.”
Following Yeshe Tsogyal’s advice, Nanam Dorje Dudjom gathered
together fine and excellent offerings for the tsok feast that amazed all
the neighboring districts, and he requested the Vajrakilaya teachings
from Guru Rinpoche. Successfully, he received the transmission of
the entire cycle of Vajrakilaya. When Nanam Dorje Dudjom cast his
flower into the mandala during the empowerment, the flower fell upon
the deity Vajrakilaya, just as it had happened when Yeshe Tsogyal
originally received the empowerment from Guru Padmasambhava.
From then on, in the Land of Snows, Nanam Dorje Dudjom’s power
and proficiency became unrivalled, and he was appointed to be the
head of those Secret Mantra practitioners using drums and phurbas.
a deshek dupa ka gyad (bde gshegs ’dus pa bka’ brgyad).
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 353
4.45: Chojé holding a phurba at the level of his heart
354
4.46: Chojé with a phurba in his hand
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 355
Because of such an auspicious interdependence, all the successive tertons who were reincarnations of Nanam Dorje Dudjom would reveal
cycles of hidden treasure teachings of Vajrakilaya. Prior reincarnations
of Nanam Dorje Dudjom include Rigdzin Godem, the vidyadhara
Vulture Feathers, Rigdzin Pema Trinley, the main holder of the Northern Treasures tradition, and more. The most recent reincarnation of
Nanam Dorje Dudjom was the great terton Sogyal Lerab Lingpa, also
known as Nyala Sogyal, who was born in Upper Nyarong in Kham.
Being a learned and highly accomplished mahasiddha, Terton Sogyal
was particularly noted for his complete mastery over the process of
revealing terma doctrines and terma objects without any confusion or
complication.
Of all termas that Terton Sogyal revealed, the most essential ones
are the cycles concerning Vajrakilaya practices. There are three main
Vajrakilaya terma cycles revealed by Terton Sogyal: The most extensive
cycle, Yang Sang Tropa, The Quintessential Secret Wrathful Vajrakilaya;
the middle-length cycle, Yang Nying Pudri, The Razor of the Innermost
Essence; and the most concise or the shortest cycle,Yang Zab Nyingpo, The
Profound Quintessential Heart Essence of Vajrakilaya. From the time they
were revealed, these terma cycles have been continuously transmitted
to this day.
Yang Sang Tropa, the most extensive cycle, is an extremely secret practice,
as well as extremely complicated and difficult to practice. It is only
accessible to those of pure samaya. If others practice it without proper
permission and qualification, they will be punished by the dakinis and
dharma protectors who guard this teaching. On the contrary, the Yang
Zab Nyingpo, the most concise cycle of Vajrakilaya, carries immense
powerful blessings and is open and accessible to anyone who has faith
in it.
Because of the different attributes of these cycles, today in the Land
of Tibet, the Yang Sang Tropa is not widely disseminated. It is only
practiced by some individual practitioners who stay in remote areas
356
and spend their entire lives in diligent dharma practice. In the case
of Yang Zab Nyingpo, however, it is widely practiced even by ordinary
householders. They take it as a practice to dispel counterproductive
circumstances and obstacles to their families and frequently recite it in
their own homes.
Generally speaking, if an individual receives the empowerment of any
of these three cycles of Vajrakilaya, they can practice all three. On this
particular occasion, I will confer the Yang Zab Nyingpo empowerment,
gathering the essential points of the vast cycle of Vajrakilaya.
The Qualities of the Thirty-Seven Precepts of
the Bodhisattvas
When the empowerment was complete, Chojé gave the oral transmission of the
Thirty-Seven Precepts of the Bodhisattvas to all participants. He briefly introduced
this text as follows:
During the past nine days, I have given you the empowerments and
instructions of the Great Perfection that can ripen your mind stream
and bring you to liberation. As I mentioned earlier, it is important for
you to focus entirely on the practice of Dzogchen.
For those who are not able to practice or who don’t know how to
practice Dzogchen, or those who also want to study and practice
the dharma stage-by-stage as well as practice Dzogchen, they should
follow the bodhisattva path. The core teaching of the bodhisattva path
lies in the Thirty-Seven Precepts of the Bodhisattvas. Now I will give you
the oral transmission for this text.
The author of the Thirty-Seven Precepts of the Bodhisattvas is Tokme
Zangpo, an emanation of Avalokiteshvara. In the place where he lived,
even the animals who were natural enemies of each other, such as
sheep, wolves, hawks, and sparrows, did not prey upon one another,
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 357
but rather cared for each other, behaved in harmony, and played
together. He was such a remarkable bodhisattva that the signs of his
perfection of bodhicitta were expressed in the external environment.
Regarding the merit of the Thirty-Seven Precepts of the Bodhisattvas,
there is no need to mention the benefits and advantages of putting it
into actual practice; just hearing its words alone can plant the seed of
liberation in the mind stream. The words of the text are fairly easy to
understand, and its practice is not difficult to implement. Even without
a teacher to explain the meaning, you would find it easy to understand
simply by reading each verse.
If you are to practice the Great Perfection or the Vajrayana practices
in general, it is required that you first rely upon a qualified teacher
and then receive the corresponding empowerment, oral transmission,
and instructions from the teacher. Only after you comprehend the
meaning completely will you be allowed to engage in the actual
practice. Otherwise, if you attempt to read and practice certain tantric
teachings only through the intellect without following a teacher and
receiving the corresponding empowerment and instructions, such
behavior will only cause great harm to you rather than bringing any
benefit. However, in terms of the Thirty-Seven Precepts of the Bodhisattvas,
even if you don’t have access to a teacher who can grant empowerment
and instructions, you are able to do this practice by yourself. It is such
a straightforward teaching that it is convenient to implement.
As I mentioned yesterday, the teachings of the Secret Mantrayana
must be kept secret. Except for those who have received empowerment
and maintained the same samaya vows as you, you must not share
what you have received with others. This Thirty-Seven Precepts of the
Bodhisattvas, however, is open to all sentient beings regardless of their
faculties. There is nothing that you should reserve in terms of the
content of this text. The wider it is spread, the far greater benefit it will
bring. Wherever it is flourishing, all kinds of negative circumstances,
such as hunger, warfare, and conflicts, will be eliminated, and people’s
358
longevity, wealth, and well-being will increase and prosper. So, this
text provides a necessary method that can bring benefit and happiness
in the widest possible sense.
4.47: With loving care, Chojé looking at people around
This time, the four dharma centers or any of the listeners in this
gathering did not come to me to request this transmission. However,
out of a purely altruistic intention to bring you benefit, I decided to
give you the transmission of this text, which is a teaching that grants
liberation upon hearing. Because of its surpassing profundity, I have
taken it as my primary practice since a very young age. I have received
this teaching repeatedly from over one hundred great masters, and
without any exaggeration, I have taught it one thousand times to
hundreds of thousands of people who have karmic connections with
me. I do believe offering this transmission to you today can bring you
benefit as well.
If you intend to rely on me and act as a truthful disciple, you should
commit the text to memory. While you may not be able to practice the
instructions of the entire text on a daily basis, please aspire to practice
at least one stanza every day. This is my requirement of you.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 359
4.48: Chojé joining his palms with a phurba
360
Three Pieces of Earnest Advice
This time, due to the great efforts of some lamas, we have been able
to establish a closer connection through dharma teachings. You have
shown strong faith and interest in the dharma and are doing very well
in many aspects. Now that we are about to separate, I would like to
leave you with three pieces of earnest advice.
The first piece of advice is because all of you are followers of Buddhism,
it is best to use the Buddhadharma to benefit your families, friends,
and whoever is connected with you. It will be even greater to guide
them onto the path of Buddhism. I have explained the reason a few
times. For me personally, I came to the West not for my personal fame
or wealth, but with a sincere wish to benefit westerners through the
dharma. I hope that you will accomplish the same wish together with
me.
The nature of the Buddhadharma is such that it stands up to any
rigorous examination with reasoning and logic, all of which can prove
its authenticity. Besides, all the great masters of the past proved its
validity through their personal experience and realization. Even if
you were to examine it for a hundred years, you would just become
increasingly impressed by the dharma, generating great delight and
affection toward it. Never will you come to a point where you think
that it is false or unreliable.
All of you possess the precious human existence, but there is no
guarantee that you will obtain it again in your future lifetimes. While
enjoying the extraordinarily fortunate circumstances in this life, you
should employ this precious human body to practice authentic dharma.
If you fail to do so, this life will be of no meaning. It will be like a
body without a heart or as if you went to a land of gold but returned
empty-handed without taking any riches. In that case, you would be
laughed at by others for wasting such a valuable opportunity.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 361
If you intend to traverse the correct path in this life, following the
path of Buddhism is a perfect choice. When we say following the path
of Buddhism, it is not enough to simply attend a refuge ceremony.
You should constantly supplicate the Buddha, venerate the guru, the
sangha, and other objects deserving our veneration, and have a strong
conviction in the law of cause and effect. You must be fully aware that
positive actions lead to pleasure, and negative actions lead to suffering.
Only when you commit yourself to the Three Jewels like this will you
become authentic Buddhist practitioners.
The second piece of advice is that the very essence of Buddhism
lies in loving kindness and compassion. It is important that all of
you constantly exert every effort to cultivate loving kindness and
compassion toward all sentient beings, wishing them to be free from
suffering and attain happiness. Once these two great qualities have
arisen in you, whatever virtuous wish you have, whether it is worldly
or transcendental, will be fulfilled without any obstacles. Ultimately,
you will attain the omniscient state of buddhahood. Therefore, being
aware of the enormous benefits of loving kindness and compassion,
please contemplate and practice them repeatedly as much as you can.
The third piece of advice is to please single-pointedly focus on the
practice of the clear light Great Perfection. The reason that I emphasize
this is that other teachings are more or less subject to decline in
this degenerate age, but generally speaking, the Great Perfection is
flourishing and now is the right time for the Dzogchen teachings
to guide and enlighten beings. In the case of the US in particular,
I personally have a strong feeling that the Great Perfection is the
single most beneficial path for dharma practitioners to follow. Other
teachings are truly difficult to bring great benefit to beings in this
modern age.
In terms of the auspicious interdependent origination in the past
and present, I think you are very connected with Dzogchen. When
Tibetan Buddhism first came to America less than four decades ago,
362
its dissemination began with Dzogchen. Now, if you want to actually
practice the dharma, Dzogchen is still the best choice. The reason is
that the primary practice of your lamas is Dzogchen, and they are
not only well-trained in the teachings, but also very experienced in
personal practice. So, you can receive all the necessary instructions
from them. Besides, you have maintained deep faith and devotion
in the Great Perfection. Hence, with all these favorable conditions,
practicing this path will bring you enormous benefit.
4.49: Western disciples happily taking photos with Chojé
In the Land of Tibet, I never have explained the Dzogchen teachings
as extensively as I am doing here at this time. Tens of thousands of my
students have never received such a detailed explanation from me, not
even my disciples who are as precious to me as my heart. However, this
very first time that we have met, I have given you all these teachings
without any reservation. Considering the great benefits these teachings
will bring to Americans now and in the future, I believe it is necessary
for me to give such extensive teachings. So please exert every effort to
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 363
practice the Dzogchen teachings I have transmitted to you. This is my
sincere hope.
Unforgettable Departure
On the afternoon of July 18th, the last day of the gathering in Napa Valley,
Yidzhin Norbu conferred a longevity empowerment called Cloudbank of Amritaa
revealed by Terton Lerab Lingpa.
4.50: Chojé conferring the longevity empowerment
a dudtsi trin pung (bdud rtsi’i sprin phung).
364
To celebrate the successful completion of the dharma activities in Napa
Valley, Chojé led the participants in a grand ganachakra feast. During the tsok
feast, the lamas offered a precious mandala and a splendid torma to Rinpoche.
There were five female American practitioners wearing five-buddha crowns
and dressed like the dakinis of the five families. They performed the vajra dance
with five-colored khatas, supplicating for the long life of Yidzhin Norbu. On
behalf of the four dharma centers who sponsored the event, Chagdud Tulku
Rinpoche expressed gratitude to Rinpoche.
4.51: Five female American practitioners performing vajra dance, supplicating
Chojé’s long life
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 365
4.52: Chojé joyfully waving goodbye to
everyone
When the tsok offering ceremony was
over, amidst the reluctance of the crowd,
Chojé waved his hand and departed.
With tears in their eyes, everyone kept
applauding enthusiastically for a long
time. By and large, westerners tend to
be rational and calm; however, that day
they showed their feelings for Rinpoche
because he had given them the profound
pith instructions and brought incredible benefit to them. So, amid their gratitude,
these students felt particularly sad to part from Yidzhin Norbu.
The schedule in Napa Valley had been very tight. Every day, except for
Khenpo Rinpoche giving empowerments or teachings, the balance of the time
was arranged for the dharma teachings and empowerments by other members
of the entourage. Either Lama Mumtso conferred empowerments, or Khenpo
Namdrol or I taught and answered questions. The schedule for the entire event
was full in both mornings and afternoons. Here, I will not go into the details of
all these activities.
4.53: Lama Mumtso conferring empowerment
366
4.54: Khenpo Namdrol giving teaching
4.55: Khenpo Sodargye answering questions from western
Buddhists
For me, being able to accompany Chojé for his overseas dharma trip and
to experience various customs and cultures was truly a blessing. On top of
that, I also received so many rare and precious empowerments, instructions,
and transmissions, especially the extraordinary pith instructions of the Chetsun
Nyingtig and Placing Buddhahood within Reach. For a dharma practitioner, nothing
was more important than these. Even if I had died at that moment, I would
have had no regret.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 367
Memory that Transcends Time
During the ten days of teachings and empowerments in Napa Valley, many
American practitioners gained various levels of realization on the nature of mind
and received inconceivable blessings from Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche.
These experiences were so profound that even after thirty years, their faith in
him is still vibrant when they remember him.
Lon Hill, the man who had served Chojé breakfast told us the following:
4.56: Lon Hill now
Knowing just a little about the
dharma, I was quite new to Buddhism when Khenpo Rinpoche
came. However, I was assigned
to serve breakfast for him, along
with two other Buddhists. Honestly, I was very nervous, but also
felt very honored.
I loved Rinpoche’s teachings, particularly his instruction on the four thoughts that turn the mind onto the
path. They were crystal-clear, straightforward, and penetrating. Every
time I practice, I feel that the meaning of living in this world is nothing
other than practicing the dharma.
Also, I’ve found the guru yoga practice of Peaceful Manjushri has been so
special, and every time I practice it, I feel I can see Rinpoche in person.
Another man, John Swearingen, one of the videographers for Chojé’s teachings at Napa Valley, also shared his personal experience:
Initially, I knew very little about Rinpoche, but later I realized a person did
not need to know his background at all, because what you experienced in
his presence was so different. Although our generation especially relies
368
on logic, the blessing of accomplished masters like him similar to the
power of guru yoga is hard to explain rationally.
4.57: John Swearingen now
As the cameraman for that event,
I had the privilege to look at Rinpoche very closely right off the
stage while he was blessing every participant after giving an empowerment. I stood by the camera
and looked at him. Sometimes, I
looked at him through the lense,
sometimes directly. Although people blocked my view while walking in front of the camera, nobody
disturbed me or asked me to leave. So, each time for about thirty minutes,
I felt like the entire world was nothing except Rinpoche. The blessing I
had was so powerful that it is obviously still here within my heart.
The practice manual of Peaceful Manjushri is not part of my daily practice,
but I always have this small text with me. Sometimes, I take it out to
review and practice a little bit. I am very sure that some of the lamas
from our gompa who received this teaching from Rinpoche have been
practicing it regularly for years.
John also mentioned a rare experience in His Holiness’ presence:
On the last day of Rinpoche’s stay at Ati Ling, he was requested to give
an animal blessing. So many people brought their pets to the center. My
wife and I also brought our dog there. Like water and fire, our dog has
been a sworn enemy of Robert’s cat. When they got together, they started
to fight. Other dogs and cats were also busy fighting and making loud
noises. We tried to calm them down, but nothing worked.
While we were so worried this might be too much for Rinpoche, he arrived.
After he chanted some sounds, immediately all the dogs and cats became
as quiet as rabbits and acted as if nothing had happened a short time ago.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 369
Our dog and Robert’s cat were cuddling together with their noses almost
touching each other. We were so amazed.
Since it is so incredible, even today, many people still remember it. You
might hear other people mention this to you.
Set Out for Rigdzin Ling
4.58: Rigdzin Ling
Since all the dharma activities at Napa Valley were complete, we left there
and drove three hours to Rigdzin Ling on the morning of July 19th. It was a
dharma center established by Chagdud Tulku Rinpoche, built in a peaceful and
pleasant environment, and surrounded by dense, tall forests. It was an ideal
place for dharma practice. On the hill behind the center, many retreat houses
were scattered among the woods.
4.59: A rainbow appearing at the
center
In the afternoon, Chojé took a rest at the center.
With some lamas from Qinghai as my guides, I
toured this sacred place, chatting with them on
the grass and taking some photos as well. In the
evening, Khenpo Rinpoche conferred the Tendrel
Nyesel empowerment.
370
4.60: Khenpo Sodargye and the two lamas from Qinghai
4.61: Chojé conferring the Tendrel Nyesel empowerment
As scheduled, we would leave the center the next morning. Before leaving,
many people took their pets, such as cats, dogs, and birds, to Chojé, asking for
his blessing. This was not originally scheduled but many people had already
come and waited. Even some who lived far away had brought their pets to the
center quite early in the day.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 371
4.62: The Trinity Journal’s report of Chojé’s visit to Rigdzin Ling
372
This was the second time that Chojé bestowed blessings on pets, after he had
done so at Ati Ling. American people loved animals, they treated them as their
family, and would take them wherever they went. Some dogs were physically
large and appeared aggressive, so for safety reasons, we didn’t want them to
go near Rinpoche. But out of love and compassion, he recited the name of
Buddha Ratnashikhin (Rinchen Tsuktor), the Mani mantra, and more for them,
delighting everyone. Although thirty years have passed, that scene is still vivid
to many of those who were present, and that moment remains heartwarming
and noteworthy in their memory.
Arrived at Tashi Choling
4.63: Chojé and his entourage arriving at Tashi Choling
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 373
On the morning of July 20th, we left Rigdzin Ling and set off for Tashi Choling
in southern Oregon. On the road trip, we enjoyed the beautiful scenery of the
West Coast. Its rich forests and mountains along the way were quite similar to
those from the Land of Tibet, which refreshed all of us along the way.
4.64: Mount Shasta
The scenery that impressed me
the most was Mount Shasta, a snowcapped, dormant volcano with an
elevation of 14,163 feet. According to
the record of eruptions over the last
ten thousand years, at least one eruption occurs every eight hundred to
six hundred years at Mount Shasta.
Native Americans in the area believe
it to be the center of the world, and it
is as holy to them as Kang Rinpoche
to Tibetans. In recent decades, being connected to a mystical power
that emanates peace and harmony,
it has attracted a lot of followers of
spirituality, such as yoga practitioners. It has become a site of meditation, holy temples, and shrines, and is also
known as a destination that houses many spiritual retreats throughout the year.
Practitioners there believe this sacred mountain is endowed with inexpressible
magical power, which enables them to sustain their inner peace. When we took
a break at the foot of the mountain, Chojé got out of the car and enjoyed the
mountain view. He also listened to some locals talking about the mysteries of
Mount Shasta.
374
4.65: Chojé, Lama Mumtso, and other lamas
consecrating the shrine hall and buddha
statues inside
After two- or three-hours’ drive, we
arrived at Tashi Choling, the main temple of Gyatrul Rinpoche located to the
south of Ashland, Oregon. People at the
temple greeted Yidzhin Norbu with a
grand reception ceremony in accordance
with the Tibetan Buddhist tradition and
made offerings to him with the representatives of the Three Jewels and other
materials. They also invited Rinpoche to
consecrate the main shrine hall of Tashi Choling and the buddha statues inside.
In the afternoon, he gave some teachings to the local Buddhists.
4.66: Chojé in the middle of a dharma teaching
In the evening in the temple, Chojé watched a video of Dudjom Rinpoche
conferring a Vajrasattva empowerment. He said to us, “I was eager to meet
Dudjom Rinpoche; unfortunately, however, I don’t have this opportunity in this
life since he has already passed into parinirvana. In order to build a connection
with him, we can watch this video recording and recite the liturgy when it
needs to be recited during the empowerment, as if we were receiving the
empowerment in front of Dudjom Rinpoche in person.”
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 375
4.67: Front row: Lingtrul Rinpoche, Gyatrul Rinpoche, Khenpo Namdrol, Khenpo Sodargye, and
Rigdzin Nyima; back row: Jigme Rangdrol, Ngodrup Dorje, and Sonam Tsering
376
This empowerment was given in Sikkim or India, and the video was of
high quality. After watching the video, Khenpo Rinpoche seemed to have truly
received the empowerment from Dudjom Rinpoche. For ordinary practitioners,
empowerments and transmissions received through videos cannot be considered
genuine transmissions, so they cannot be transmitted forward to others. However,
in terms of personal practice, you can receive special blessings through the
video and audio recordings of great masters.
Laughter inside the Tent
On the morning of July 21st, Gyatrul Rinpoche offered a red, outdoor camping
tent to Yidzhin Norbu, which was already put up on the grass. Rinpoche seemed
to like it a lot and said it could be used in the summer when we were back in
the Land of Tibet.
4.68: The tent offered to Chojé by Gyatrul Rinpoche
The tent looked small, but unexpectedly all thirteen of us managed to sit
inside, and it didn’t look crowded at all. To bless this tent, Chojé first led us in
chanting Wangdu and the mantra of the nine principal magnetizing deities. Then,
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 377
he started to chant the mantra of the Yellow Dzambhala. During the chanting,
he suddenly stopped and said, “Why I am chanting the Yellow Dzambhala
mantra? It seems this is a special interdependent origination! I have been a poor
and content monk these past sixty years, and now as I am older than sixty, my
wealth will gradually increase.” Indeed, as Chojé predicted, his wealth and
possessions increased more and more from then on.
Rinpoche jokingly continued this topic and said, “It is very good to be
wealthy. A monk from my hometown named Jamyang always says that all
phenomena arise from possessions. In the Tibetan language, cause and possession
are the same syllable, because the Buddha taught that all phenomena arise
from causes and conditions, that monk misunderstands it as all phenomena
arise from possessions. So, he frequently says that getting rich is very essential
in practicing the dharma and that all dharma practitioners must be wealthy!”
Chojé mimicked Jamyang’s tone of voice, and we all burst out with laughter,
our bodies shaking back and forth.
4.69: Chojé in the tent
378
Then, a student offered yogurt to Chojé. Seeing it, he said, “Yogurt was
my basic food when I studied at Changma Hermitage in Sershul. To create an
auspicious interdependence today, instead of using bowls, I will give each one
of you some yogurt in your hands.” We all joyfully held our hands to receive
the yogurt given by Rinpoche.
4.70: To create an auspicious interdependence, Chojé giving yogurt to
everyone in their hands
While eating the yogurt, Chojé talked about Dudjom Rinpoche, “I heard
that some of you would like to follow Dudjom Rinpoche and aspire to take
rebirth in Guru Rinpoche’s Glorious Copper-Colored Mountain, but I aspire
to be reborn in Sukhavati. As long as I am born there, I can easily and swiftly
go to the Glorious Copper-Colored Mountain at any time I wish. As Chakme
Rinpoche said in his An Aspiration for Birth in the Pure Realm of Sukhavati:
a
In Potala, Alakavati,
Chamaradvipa, and Oddiyana;
In a billion nirmanakaya realms,
a nam dag dechen zhing gi monlam (rnam dag bde chen zhing gi smon lam).
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 379
May I meet a billion Avalokiteshvaras, Taras,
Vajrapanis, and Padmakaras.
May I present oceans of offerings to them
And receive empowerment and profound instructions.
May I quickly then return unimpeded to my own residence in
Sukhavati.
However, once you are born in the Copper-Colored Mountain, it may not be
that easy if you want to visit Sukhavati and then return to your abode. Khenpo
Namdrol, Gyatrul Rinpoche, do you aspire to take rebirth in the Glorious
Copper-Colored Mountain? I think all the others will follow me to be born in
Sukhavati.” Hearing these words, we all laughed heartily.
Yidzhin Norbu continued, “When I was in the Land of Tibet, I truly wished
to have an opportunity to meet Dudjom Rinpoche in this life. One day, I had a
dream where a person told me, ‘The mind of His Holiness Dudjom Rinpoche
is now concentrating on the pure realms. You two will not have the chance to
meet in this lifetime.’ Later, I learned that Dudjom Rinpoche rarely spoke for
two or three years, and his mind seemed to be outside the human world. Just as
the dream indicated, I didn’t have the chance to meet him.”
Suddenly Rinpoche remembered something and asked, “Who revealed the
sadhana that Dudjom Rinpoche used for the empowerment, the one that we
watched in the video last night?” Gyatrul Rinpoche answered, “It must be a
terma revealed by Dudjom Rinpoche himself.”
For some time, Chojé and all of us talked about many topics, and the
sound of our laughter continued to emanate from the tent. As I listened to the
conversation, I looked at the tent and thought about how to take it back home;
because it was a double-layered tent, it was very heavy.
380
4.71: Hearty laughter keeping emanating from the tent
The Site Where a Treasure Vase Was Buried
Later, Gyatrul Rinpoche invited Yidzhin Norbu to go to a sacred place nearby by
car. It was a smooth hillside covered by grass and surrounded by trees. Gyatrul
Rinpoche pointed to a particular tree and said to Khenpo Rinpoche:
On the tenth day of the sixth Tibetan lunar month in 1980, Dudjom
Rinpoche came to Ashland from San Francisco. It was the same day that
you founded Larung Gar Buddhist Academy. He took a helicopter and
landed on this mountain top with his wife Rigdzin Wangmo, his son
Shenphen Dawa and Tulku Pema Wangyal. Back then, there was no road,
only this flat area.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 381
4.72: The area where the helicopter Dudjom Rinpoche rode landed
4.73: The spot where the treasure
vase was buried
I held a treasure vase and waited here in
advance to receive them. When Dudjom
Rinpoche arrived, he picked a spot and
buried the treasure vase. He then snapped
off a twig, planted it in the spot where the
treasure vase was buried and hung a white
silk scarf on it, saying, “Those who practice
here sincerely will have the opportunity
to obtain the rainbow body.” Dudjom Rinpoche then performed the Earth Ritual
and recited prayers for about two hours,
after which he and his retinue took the
helicopter back to the airport. Amazingly, after a few years, the twig
Dudjom Rinpoche planted has grown into this big tree.
Then, His Holiness recited many prayers and blessed the place.
382
Consecration of the Vajrasattva Statue
4.74: Chojé and the entourage beside the Vajrasattva statue
4.75: The outdoor Vajrasattva statue at Tashi
Choling
In the afternoon, Gyatrul Rinpoche
and the students at Tashi Choling
invited Chojé to consecrate the large
Vajrasattva statue. At the request of
H.H. Dudjom Rinpoche and to purify all obscurations and remove obstacles for establishing the dharma
at Tashi Choling, the first activity
Gyatrul Rinpoche performed on this
sacred land was to build a 35-foothigh statue of Vajrasattva, with the help of Chagdud Tulku Rinpoche, the
artist Ngodrup Rongé, and many devoted students. Also, because Gyatrul
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 383
Rinpoche was entrusted by Terton Kunzang Nyima to be the treasure owner of a
Vajrasattva practice, the statue was built to enhance this auspicious connection.
It is the only large outdoor Vajrasattva statue in the US and is now accompanied
by a 20-foot-high statue of White Tara on one side and Green Tara on the other.
In front of the Vajrasattva statue, there are prayer wheels filled with the hundred
syllable mantra of Vajrasattva, and behind is a Mani prayer wheel room filled
with millions of mantras, including Amitabha and Amitayus, as well as Guru
Rinpoche and Avalokiteshvara.
4.76: Chojé consecrating the Vajrasattva statue
Yidzhin Norbu circumambulated the statues, made aspirations in front of
them, and then performed a consecration ritual for a long time. It was a bright,
sunny day, and the white daisies clustered around the statues were in full
bloom. Rinpoche seemed very happy, feeling that it was fortunate to have these
excellent representatives of the Three Jewels in the US and that they would
certainly bring great benefit to numerous sentient beings.
384
4.77: Chojé in the clusters of white daisies and the warmth of the sunshine
Pith Instructions for the Living and Dying
In the evening, according to the request of the lamas and students, Khenpo
Rinpoche gave a teaching on phowa, bestowed a longevity empowerment, and
gave the transmission of the longevity sadhana at the Unitarian Church in
Ashland. I assume most readers of this book know how to practice phowa and
have received longevity empowerments, but in order to make Chojé’s special
teachings on these two topics accessible to everyone, I decided to compile them
in their entirety into this book.
Now, you have obtained the precious human rebirth that is very
difficult to obtain. Not only have you obtained the precious human
rebirth, you have also met a qualified spiritual teacher. Not only
have you met a qualified spiritual teacher, you also have the precious
opportunity to receive the vast teachings of the Buddhadharma from
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 385
the teacher. However, the precious human life does not last forever,
and it is unpredictable. You are certain to die, but how and when
you are going to die, as well as the causes of your death, cannot be
predicted.
4.78: Chojé on the dharma throne inside the church
Contemplating the uncertainty of this human life, you need to train
your mind repeatedly through dharma practice and try your best to
renounce the worldly activities of this life because at the time of death,
wealth and possessions, power and status, fame and popularity, status
and beauty are of no use at all. Neither can any of your friends and
family members accompany you on the way to death, nor is there
any way for you to take even a mouthful of food with you; you will
have to leave empty-handed for an unknown place. The only thing
of any use at the moment of death is the supreme dharma, while
the things that are harmful for sure are the negative deeds that you
previously committed. So, no matter who you are, now is the time for
you to determine what is beneficial from what is harmful and engage
in virtuous activity while you still have the freedom to do so.
Most of you may work for five days a week and only have two days to
rest, and you probably spend the two-day weekend on entertainment,
386
such as drinking, singing, and dancing. Like that, if you have a strong
attachment to this life and do not engage in virtuous activity, at the
moment of death, you will beat your breast and weep with great
remorse. If you haven’t accumulated any virtuous karma but dream
to obtain a good rebirth, you are truly cheating yourself and others.
Therefore, do not indulge in ordinary concerns, such as acquiring
wealth and property. You should be your own master on the path of
liberation and try your best to persevere in practicing pure dharma.
Many religious traditions are of benefit to both the present life and
future lifetimes, and among them, Buddhism is the most supreme. This
can be validated by Buddhist scriptural sources and logical reasoning.
It also has been proved by the personal realization of numerous dharma
practitioners. There are a great number of methods of spiritual practice
in Buddhism, and among them, there is one method that is very easy
to apply and is of great benefit. What is it? It is the practice of praying
to Buddha Amitabha single-pointedly for taking rebirth in Sukhavati
immediately after death. This is the essence of Buddhism.
4.79: Chojé conferring phowa and the
longevity empowerment at the Unitarian
Church
If practitioners of other religious
traditions can perform this practice, whether Hindu, Christian,
or any other religious followers,
instead of incurring any fault,
they will gain immense benefit,
including all accomplishments
declared in their own doctrines.
This practice is a marvelous
method to fulfill good wishes
all at once, so please do not
hold a sectarian attitude and neglect it. Everyone should pray to Buddha Amitabha and aspire to be reborn in Sukhavati. It is indispensable
for you because of its great benefit, no matter which religious tradition
you follow.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 387
Phowa
Therefore, I would like to teach you the virtuous path of praying to
Lord Buddha Amitabha for taking rebirth in Sukhavati. First reflect,
“From now until I reach the ultimate state of buddhahood, I take refuge
in Buddha Amitabha and the bodhisattvas surrounding him, and I
dedicate all merit that I accumulate to all sentient beings, wishing
them to take rebirth in Sukhavati at the end of their present life.” Now,
recite after me the verse of taking refuge and generating bodhicitta:
In the supreme Buddha, the dharma, and the sangha,
I take refuge until I attain enlightenment.
Through the merit of practicing generosity and so on,
May I attain buddhahood for the benefit of all beings.
Then, visualize that this is not an ordinary place, but you are in
Amitabha’s pure realm of Sukhavati. Your body is not an ordinary
corporeal body but visualize that in essence you are Khandro Yeshe
Tsogyal, yet you appear in the form of Vajrayogini. She is red with one
face and two arms, with the right hand holding a curved knife and the
left a kapala, and she is standing with her right leg extended and the
left slightly bent. This should be clearly visualized.
In the center of your body, visualize the central channel, which is
luminously empty and clear, and is very straight and the size of a
bamboo arrow. It runs straight up the center of your body to the crown
aperture where it is wide open, while its lower end is closed off below
the navel. At the core of your heart, visualize a joint in the central
channel, like that found in a bamboo shaft. Slightly above this joint,
visualize a pale green bindu of wind, in which is the essence of your
mind-consciousness in the form of a buoyant red syllable hrih. It is
vibrating up and down, shimmering with energy, seeming to fly and
seeming to disappear. In the space of a forearm’s length above the
crown of your head is Buddha Amitabha surrounded by bodhisattvas,
and they abide vividly and distinctively.
388
4.80: Chojé hanging his red mala on his left ear
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 389
That is the explanation for the Tibetan verses that I will now recite:
Emaho!
Self-appearances are spontaneously present as a realm of
infinite purity,
The realm of Great Bliss, arrayed in complete and perfect
detail.
My corporeal body is Vajrayogini,
With one face and two hands, brilliant red, and holding a
curved knife and kapala.
My two feet are gracefully poised, and my three eyes gaze
into the sky.
In the middle of my body is the central channel
The size of a hollow bamboo arrow,
Empty and clear like a shaft of light.
Its upper end is open at the crown aperture,
And its lower end is just below the navel center.
Upon the joint at the heart center,
In the center of a pale green bindu of wind,
Awareness clearly appears as a red syllable “hrih.”
A forearm’s length above the crown of my head
Appears Buddha Amitabha,
Complete with all the major and minor marks.
Then, with total faith and trust, focus on Lord Buddha Amitabha
directly above the crown of your head, give rise to single-pointed
devotion, and pray to him so your own mind can be transferred into
the heart of Buddha Amitabha to merge with his mind.
I will recite the names of Amitabha to you, and you need to sincerely
pray to Amitabha while listening to me.
Tathagata Amitabha, Arhat, Omniscient One, Perfect in
Illumination and Conduct, Thus Gone One, Knower of the
390
World, Supreme Tamer of Men, Teacher of Gods and Humans,
Buddha, Bhagavat, to you, I pay homage! To you, I make
offerings! In you, I take refuge!
Emaho!
Within the self-appearing realm of the ultimate Akanishtha
Is an expanse of interweaving rainbow light of intense
devotion.
Here, the embodiment of all objects of refuge, one’s own root
guru,
In an extraordinary form and with a radiant body,
Abides as the essence of Buddha Amitabha.
With intense devotion, we pray.
Inspire us to accomplish the path of transference!
Inspire us to reach the realm of Akanishtha!
May we capture the domain of dharmakaya expanse!
Next, I will repeat the syllables hrih, hrih, hrih, hrih, hrih, hik three times.
The first time, visualize that at your heart center, there is the light
green bindu of wind marked with the red syllable hrih that represents
the essence of your mind-consciousness. When I recite hrih five times,
the red syllable hrih ascends upward by the force of the wind and
ascends higher and higher. As it reaches the top of your head, I will
shout out hik, and at the same time you visualize the red syllable hrih
shoots up and out and dissolves into the heart of Buddha Amitabha.
The second time, again visualize that the pale green bindu of wind
reappears at your heart, like a bubble emerging from the water. The
rest of the visualization is the same as above. As I recite hrih, visualize
your mind-consciousness ascends upward and rises higher and higher,
and with hik, visualize it shoots up and out and dissolves into Buddha
Amitabha’s heart.
Visualize the same way when I recite the syllables for the third time.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 391
4.81: Chojé guiding the audience to visualize as he taught phowa
hrih, hrih, hrih, hrih, hrih hik (three times)
I will recite phat five times, which will seal you in the expanse of
the five kayas of Buddha Amitabha—dharmakaya, sambhogakaya,
nirmanakaya, vajrakaya of the unchanging natural state, and the
perfect kaya of complete awakening—and you will be indivisible from
Buddha Amitabha forever. Visualize in this way, and listen to me:
phat, phat, phat, phat, phat
Then, visualize that the Buddha Amitabha above your head dissolves
into light and then into you.
The Longevity Empowerment
In an instant, visualize yourself as Bhagavan Amitayus, ruby red in
color, adorned with the sambhogakaya attire and ornaments. The
hands rest in the gesture of meditation, holding a vase brimming with
ambrosia of deathlessness. He is seated in the full-lotus posture.
392
Hung Hrih
Lord Bhagavan Amitayus,
Red, in sambhogakaya form,
Holding a long-life vase,
From the enclosure of your wisdom mind,
You bestow the secret mantra “ayu.”
May those to be protected achieve vajra life!
Kye!
Essence of all buddhas of the three times,
Supreme captain of all wanderers without exception,
Orgyen Protector, Vidyadhara Amitayus,
Bequeath the vajra siddhi of immortality
To the body, speech, and mind of those to be protected.
om namo bhagawate | aparimita ayur jnana subinish chitta tejo
rajaya | tathagataya arhate samyaksam buddhaya | tadyatha om
punye punye maha punye | aparimita punye aparimita punya
jnana sambharo pachite | om sarwa samskara parishuddhe dharmate gagana samudgate swabhava vishuddhe mahanaya parivare
soha |
om. namo bhagavate aparimitayur-jñ ¯ ana-suviniścita-tejo- ¯
raj¯ aya tath ¯ agat ¯ aya arhate samyak sa ¯ m.
buddhaya | tadyath ¯ a¯
| om. pun. ye pun. ye maha-pu ¯ n. ye ’parimita-pun. ye ’parimitapun. ya-jñana-sa ¯ m. bharopacite | o ¯ m.
sarva-sam.
skara-pariśud- ¯
dhe dharmate gagana-samudgate svabhava-viśuddhe mah ¯ a-¯
naya-parivare sv ¯ ah¯ a |¯
Hung
Deities of the mandala of approach and accomplishment,
You of great compassion and mighty power,
Your hand emblems change into light rays that radiate and
reabsorb.
When my vitality diminishes, drifts, or is deprived,
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 393
May the essence of life throughout samsara, nirvana, worlds,
and beings,
Be summoned in the form of the seed syllable within a bindu
of light,
Which then dissolves into me.
May magnificent brilliance increase,
And may I accomplish the supreme, deathless vajra life.
om benzar ayu ché hung dza tsé bhrum yu bhrum yu tsé apana
yé bhrum
om namo bhagawate | aparimita ayur jnana subinish chitta tejo
rajaya | tathagataya arhate samyaksam buddhaya | tadyatha om
punye punye maha punye | aparimita punye aparimita punya
jnana sambharo pachite | om sarwa samskara parishuddhe dharmate gagana samudgate swabhava vishuddhe mahanaya parivare
soha |
om. namo bhagavate aparimitayur-jñ ¯ ana-suviniścita-tejo- ¯
raj¯ aya tath ¯ agat ¯ aya arhate samyak sa ¯ m.
buddhaya | tadyath ¯ a¯
| om. pun. ye pun. ye maha-pu ¯ n. ye ’parimita-pun. ye ’parimitapun. ya-jñana-sa ¯ m.
bharopacite | o ¯ m.
sarva-sam.
skara-pariśud- ¯
dhe dharmate gagana-samudgate svabhava-viśuddhe mah ¯ a-¯
naya-parivare sv ¯ ah¯ a |¯
Later, you will receive long-life pills and long-life nectar. When you take
them, visualize that you have accomplished the siddhi of deathlessness
equal to that of Lord Buddha Amitayus.
Om
The body of the body dissolves into the body,
Abiding thoroughly in the five aggregates.
Ah
The speech of the speech dissolves into the speech,
Merging into the supreme faculty of tongue.
394
4.82: Western disciples receiving blessing from Chojé
Hung
The mind of the mind dissolves into the mind,
Merging with the self-occurring wisdom mind.
Auspicious days! Auspicious nights!
Auspiciousness eternal, day and night!
Auspicious fortune to the fortunate!
Essence lucid as sun and moon!
Emaho!
By the force of the blessings of Buddha Amitayus
And the power of perfecting the stages of approach and
accomplishment,
May the four hundred and four types of diseases,
Eighty thousand demonic influences,
Ninety-one conditions that cause sudden death,
Eight types of untimely death,
All harm and obstacles to longevity
Be dispelled completely, without exception.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 395
In the cave of Maratika,
Where you accomplished immortal vidyadharahood,
Lord Amitayus blessed you, and
You attained the deathless vajra body, free from birth and
death:
Deathless Padmakara, grant me auspiciousness!
om ah hung benzar guru pema siddhi hung
Now, the instructions for phowa, the way to buddhahood without
meditation, and the longevity empowerment of Buddha Amitayus
that dispels all untimely death are complete.
4.83: Chojé’s coral mala
396
Next, we will dedicate all merit accumulated throughout the three
times, represented by the merit gathered from tonight’s teaching, to all
sentient beings so they may obtain the omniscient state of buddhahood.
Please recite with me:
By this accumulation of merit, may I obtain all-seeing
omniscience,
And may all faults be defeated.
The whirling, turbulent waves of birth, aging, sickness,
And death—from this ocean of samsara, may I liberate beings.
om yé dharma hetu prabhawa hetun te khen tatagato haya
wadat te khen tsa yo nirodha ewam badi maha shramanra
soha
May auspiciousness exist day and night.
May auspiciousness exist at noon.
May auspiciousness prevail all days and nights.
Three Jewels, today bestow auspiciousness!
Qualified teachers, today bestow auspiciousness!
All deities, today bestow auspiciousness!
All dharma protectors, today bestow auspiciousness!
All earth spirits, today bestow auspiciousness!
May all the spirits gathered in this place,
Be it on the earth, in the water, or in the sky,
Always show goodwill and kindness to all beings,
And practice dharma day and night.
Relying upon the power of buddhas’ authentic words, which
can overcome enemies
And which is extremely true and free from deception,
May all be auspicious
And free from great fear at all times!
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 397
Again, may teacher and disciples who are yogis and yoginis,
the patrons, and the retinues completely conquer all demonic
forces, all harm, and all obstacles, just like the sun and
moon free from eclipses. May all be auspicious! Dzaya dzaya
su dzaya, dzaya dzaya su dzaya, dzaya dzaya su dzaya!
Victorious, victorious, may all be victorious!
4.84: Chojé blessing disciples with a longevity arrow
The Magical Phat
It was not unusual for Chojé to lead his students in the practice of phowa,
the transference of consciousness, so originally we didn’t expect the dharma
teaching on July 21st to be a special one. However, after interviewing several
people who were among the audience, I realized that when Rinpoche shouted
phat during the phowa practice that night, this became so deeply rooted in their
memories that they can still clearly recall the sound many years later.
Kay Henry recollected as follows:
Even though the advertising and promotion for Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok’s
public event at the Unitarian Church came together at the last minute, he
attracted so many people that there was standing room only in a venue
398
that seats two hundred fifty people. That night Rinpoche gave a long-life
blessing and a teaching on phowa, the transference of consciousness.
At the end of the phowa teaching, he practiced phowa for all of us, and
especially his shouting of phat was incredibly powerful and haunting.
During the next twenty years, from time to time, people would come up
to me and say, “Remember that lama who came to the Unitarian Church
in 1993? I’ll never forget that amazing sound he made!”
4.85: Chojé leading the audience to practice phowa
Sven Galambos, a Hawaiian, one of the drivers for Yidzhin Norbu in the US,
told me:
I was among the audience when Rinpoche gave the longevity empowerment and phowa teaching in Ashland. Suddenly, he was shouting phat,
and all my conceptual thoughts were dissolved into dharmata. I don’t
know how long I sustained that state, but I promise that I have never had
such an experience in my life.
The 4th Stop: California & Oregon, USA 399
Gave Teaching at Yeshe Nyingpo Orgyen Dorje Den
On the early morning of July 22nd, we drove for more than six hours from
Tashi Choling to Yeshe Nyingpo Orgyen Dorje Den in the San Francisco Bay
Area. This center was founded by Dudjom Rinpoche and Gyatrul Rinpoche. All
centers founded by Dudjom Rinpoche were given the name Yeshe Nyingpo.
4.86: Chojé receiving devotees
The center was not big, but as we arrived, many American and Asian
Buddhists came to receive teachings and blessings from Rinpoche. He gave
refuge vows and bestowed the empowerment of Jampal Yeshe Sempa.
400
4.87: Chojé about to ride the Rolls Royce limousine arranged for him
On July 23rd, Chojé and entourage
headed to the San Francisco International Airport. In order to show
the high status of Rinpoche and to
express their gratitude, some American Buddhists arranged a Rolls Royce
limousine to drive us to the airport.
It was a luxury car that encompassed
an on-board television and telephone
and served food and drink.
4.88: Khenpo Namdrol and Khenpo Sodargye using the telephone equipped in the limousine
Later, we flew from the West Coast to the East Coast and arrived at Washington, D.C., the capital of the US. At that point, the dharma activities of Khenpo
Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche on the West Coast were complete.
Notes
1. The International Translation Team is a group of devoted Han Chinese students who mainly
work on the translation of Khenpo Sodargye’s writings and oral teachings.
2. Throughout this book, the terms Chojé, Khenpo Rinpoche, Rinpoche, His Holiness, and Yidzhin
Norbu refer to His Holiness Khenpo Jigme Phuntsok Rinpoche.
3. Lama Mumtso is the niece of His Holiness Jigme Phuntsok and is the reincarnation of Jetsün
Mingyur Paldrön, who was an emanation of Yeshe Tsogyal.
4. The abbreviated name of Jigme Phuntsok.
5. Gesar of Ling (Wyl. gling ge sar), 1038-1124, is a legendary warrior king who is invoked as a
protector of the teachings.
6. Werma is a synonym of drala and can also sometimes refer to their retinue, as in the expression
“dralas and wermas.”
7. The first Drubwang Pema Norbu lived from 1679 to 1757 and was the Third Throne Holder
of the Nyingma Palyul tradition. The second Drubwang Pema Norbu (1887-1932) was Pema
Kunzang Tendzin Norbu, who was the Ninth Throne Holder of the Palyul tradition. The third
Drubwang Pema Norbu (1932-2009) was Thubten Lekshed Chökyi Drayang, also known as
Do-ngag Shedrub Tendzin Chog-le’i Namgyal, who was the Eleventh Throne Holder of the
Palyul tradition. Penor Rinpoche’s yangsi was born in 2011.
8. A dhonka is a shirt with cap sleeves.
9. A tael is a unit of weight used in China and East Asia equivalent to approximately 50 grams.
10. The six paramitas are generosity, jinpa (sbyin pa); discipline, tsultrim (tshul khrims); patience, zopa
(bzod pa); diligence, tsondru (brtson ’grus); concentration, samten (bsam gtan); and wisdom, sherab
(shes rab).
11. He was named “Daughter” because all his father’s other sons had died, so when he was born,
his father decided to name him Daughter in the hope that this would keep him alive.
12. One yojana, pag tsad (dpag tshad), is approximately 7.5-8 kilometers or 4,000 fathoms.
13. This is a parasol made of cotton cloth.
14. According to Khetsun Zangpo Rinpoche, the contemporary Indian view is that the Sacred Stupa
(mchod rten rnam dag) was situated near Mankapur in Uttar Pradesh.
15. It is a place in today’s Xi’an City of China.
402
16. The Two Supreme Ones, chog nyi (mchog gnyis), were Gunaprabha and Shakyaprabha.
17. The Six Ornaments, dzamling gyen drug (’dzam ling rgyan drug), were the six famed panditas of
India: Vasubandhu, Asanga, Nagarjuna, Aryadeva, Dignaga, and Dharmakirti.
18. Chebulic Myrobalan is one of the ingredients of the Triphala of Ayurveda and is a very important
herb to promote fearlessness, feed the brain and nervous system, and bring awareness and
wisdom.
19. This stop in Hawaii was requested only two weeks prior to the beginning of the tour. The dharma
students did an amazing job with organizing this change on such short notice.
20. It is recorded in the Tibetan document.
21. The seven patriarchs, tanpé tad rab dun (bstan pa’i gtad rabs bdun), were Mahakashyapa, Ananda,
Shanavasika, Upagupta, Dhitika, Krishna, and Sudarshana.
22. Rudra (Wyl. ru dra) is a demon who embodies the ego.
23. This is reference to David Bolduc.
24. Also known as Jamgon Kongtrul Yonten Gyatso.
25. The four profound scriptures of Vimalamitra, bimala’i zab pa pod zhi (bi ma la’i zab pa pod bzhi)
are the golden syllables, ser yig chen (gser yig can); copper syllables, zang yig chen (zangs yig can);
conch syllables, düng yig chen (dung yig can); and turquoise syllables, yu yig chen (gyu yig can). The
variegated syllables, tra yig chen (phra yig can), category is included within the copper-syllable
category.
26. Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo possessed the seven qualities of realization in the transmission of
the Kama (i.e., canonical) lineage: earth treasures, mind treasures, quintessential treasures, pure
vision, total recall, the oral lineage, and the transmission of all teachings in the Old and New
Schools.
27. When this says possessing three and two, it is referring to the decrease of the ten virtues, which are
all complete in the Age of Perfection. Then in the next age, only three-fourths are complete; and
for the third, only two-fourths; and finally one-fourths virtues are possessed, and that is the Kali
Yuga. At that time, virtue is merely named.
28. Immaculate friend refers to Vimalamitra, which is the meaning of Vimalamitra in Sanskrit.
khenposodargye.org
contact us: info@khenposodargye.org